[music]
There is a sentiment overhang.
>> We're coming to a point in the AI
transformation where dispersion is much
greater.
>> The AI boom is coming.
>> Rotation is the new momentum trade.
>> I think there's a number of narratives
going on and so investors are
increasingly wondering you know which
ones do we want to pick. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and An Marie
Hordern.
[music]
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Friday, struggling to bounce.
Amazon stock plunging after pledging to
spend $200 billion this year after tech
stocks [music] posted the biggest 3-day
route since Liberation Day and weaker
than expected day to send bond yields
down the most in [music] months. We
begin this hour taking stock of a brutal
week on Wall Street following a route
across tech, precious metals, and
crypto. [music] A single anthropic
plug-in providing even more fuel for the
software sell-off spreading across the
stocks of private market firms from Blue
L to TPG. The risk aversion taking on a
different flavor going into the weekend
as several data points are poking holes
in the bullcase for [music] the US
economy, opening the door to a
conversation about rate cuts. The
anatomy of this week is notable for how
varied it is. It started with what you
were talking about the route in software
[music] stocks, the potential of
anthropic disrupting fundamental
business models and potentially
increasing the default risk of some of
these companies. It has shifted into
well how much can this bull market keep
running if you don't have the pillars of
a strong economy behind it. Yesterday we
got a one, two, three punch. We got the
challenger jobs announcements [music]
that came out. Then we got jobless
claims that were elevated at 8we highs.
And then we got the Jolts data that came
out that showed that job openings fell
to the lowest level since 2020, not
boating well for the US economy.
>> Governor Waller [music] is looking
smarter and smarter by the day over the
last week or so. He said this recently.
There is considerable doubt about future
employment growth and suggests [music]
that a substantial deterioration in the
labor market is a significant risk. Now,
we can have the debate about it all, but
it's [music] certainly a risk
>> and he's been consistent. He has been
saying this for months and most recently
saying he is still very concerned
[music] and basically everyone was
looking for why did this individual go
out and descent at the last meeting. Was
it just because he was running to be the
Fed chair? Governor Waller came out and
said no. It's cuz I'm concerned [music]
about the labor market and maybe he was
right.
>> So we got real economy concerns on top
of a route in tech stocks [music] and
massive moves in private market firms.
KKR, TPG, Blackstone, Apollo all softer
this week. Check out Blue down [music]
for 11 consecutive days. We're down 15%
this week alone. and they came out and
they tried to stave off some of those
concerns by saying [music] look software
related uh debt is only about 8% of our
portfolio. the market's response, we
don't believe you. A similar response
from areas as well, people not taking
any of these assertions as fact or any
kind of a placation for some of the
concerns. It raises [music] this issue.
How are some of these companies going to
finance these very ambitious plans at a
time where yes, their cash flows are
really ample, but ultimately will come
down to some of the credit financing.
How willing are people to go and
continue to extend that?
>> They're struggling to put this story to
bed. Ari is saying there's a huge
disconnect. [music] the narrative is
wrong. KKR Scott Nutle saying our level
of anxiety [music] is pretty low for
them, for the management teams, but
right now if you're holding the stock, I
imagine you're pretty anxious.
>> Blue Aloe also saying their technology,
that port part of the portfolio is the
most pristine. Quote, "We don't have red
flags. We don't have yellow flags. We
actually have largely green flags."
Well, I'll tell you those stocks are
anything but green this week.
>> So, here's the bounce so far this
morning. Equity futures on the S&P
positive by 0.5%. [music] We'll see if
this sticks. Coming up this hour, we'll
catch up with Brian Levit of Invesco on
a 3-day stock market route. Sarah Kunst
of Cleo Capital as big tech capex
balloons and VCaria of Bank of America
as chip stocks cash in on the spending
boom. We begin this hour with stocks
inching higher following a three-day
decline. Brian Levit of Invesco writing,
"The story is far from fully written. We
expect leadership to rotate as the
market differentiates actual earnings
leverage from all the hype." Brian joins
us now for more. Brian, good morning.
Good to see you.
>> Good to see you, too. What was the last
24 hours about compared to the previous
two days?
>> I would say that the you this is a
market that's been letting off some
steam certainly in the in the in the
hotter parts of the market and primarily
I think you got to look if you look at
the broad index level these markets are
not down all that much. I mean NASDAQ
down 5% over the last 5 days isn't
great. S&P a couple of percent. It's
really the carnage being hit in the
software stocks and some of the more
speculative parts of the market. You see
it in in things like uh what happened
with silver prices in Bitcoin. But the
reality is when you look at all the
investment that's likely to take place,
we can parse whether the big companies
at the top of the S&P 500 are right to
do so. But if you look at industrials,
if you look at energy, if you look at
the semiconductors, it's all held up
fairly nicely. And it's all part of that
rotation story that we're talking about.
less about who's going to win in that
space because that's going to be a big
investment to win in that space versus
who's going to help support this
buildout. Uh that story continues to
play
>> that certainly felt real up until
yesterday and then the real economy
scare kind of clicked in just a little
bit. I don't want to overdo it, but just
a little bit. A couple of data points
poking holes in a bull case for the US
economy. That's something we need to
talk about because people were piling
into small caps. They were comfortable
in the equal weight close to alltime
highs. Should they still be comfortable
with those trades?
>> Yeah, I think so. And let's remember we
started the week with one of the great
leading indicators of the economy, the
Institute for Supply Management
Purchasing Managers Index, which surged
and climbed to 52. That's an expansion
territory. We had not been there in
quite a while. The new orders component
particularly strong within it and prices
paid relatively flat. So that's a good
leading indicator of the economy. Now,
when you think about the jobs market,
yeah, jobless claims rose yesterday.
250,000
is not a blowout um jobless claim
number. And it's also a little bit of a
heads you win, tails you win type of
scenario because the weakness in the
economy suggests what I've always
believed is lower interest rates on the
short end of the curve which should
continue to benefit lower capitalization
stocks, more valueoriented stocks. So
I'm not ready to say that this is a
economy that's rolling over. Credit
spreads continue to remain tight.
Leading indicators are picking up.
Inflation expectations relatively
contain. I think the Fed's going to be
bringing rates down towards 3%.
>> It might not be an economy that's
rolling over, but it's a really
confusing economy and Amazon exemplifies
it in a perfect way. On one hand, they
were behind a significant portion of
some of those job cut announcements that
we got from Challenger Gray and
Christmas yesterday. On the same level,
they're going to be spending $200
billion so far this year. How important
is it for us to understand exactly what
they are spending this money on to be
able to infer what kind of growth and
benefit to the underlying economy that
actually will look like?
>> Yeah, it's important. But if you if you
take each component of economic
activity, you take the consumer, we have
to remember that yeah, things may be
weakening a little bit. Um household net
worth is at an all-time high.
Unemployment's relatively low. The
business investment we know is going to
be big as you mentioned and the
government spend is going to be
reasonable this year not only in the
United States but many parts of the
world. So in aggregate that's a good
economic backdrop. Now when you think of
this investment that's going to take
place there's a lot of parts of the
economy that should benefit from it. Um
you know and again industrials rallying
energy has been rallying semiconductors
were up 15% year to date before this
week. So, I think that that story
persists. Um, would I be diving back
into software companies this morning
after the self? No, I'd be mindful of
that, but I think the the real economic
story continues
>> and this is arguably the main reason for
the broadening out trade. Real question
right now is do you go into the
hyperscalers given the fact that their
business model seems to be changing from
asset light to basically glorified
utilities and real estate managers.
>> Yeah, I mean I would go I would go case
by case. It's certainly not a monolith.
big story last year was that only two of
the seven mag seven outperformed the
market. And you're right, these stories
have changed significantly. I mean, the
things that we loved about some of these
businesses was that they were near
monopolistic. They did not have
significant investment needs and that
all changes. So, you got to go company
by company, be far more selective, and
can't say I'm just going to own the
whole lot of them. There will be
winners, there will be losers. Um, those
business models have changed. Brian, you
say you're not going to wake up this
morning and just go dive in and pick up
some software company stock. Why not?
Why isn't this a buy the dip moment?
>> Because for a lot of them, we still need
to understand what does this really mean
for the business model? And there we
knew all along AI is going to be quite
disruptive for a lot of businesses. The
question that investors should ask
themselves over the next few years is it
disruptive to more businesses than it is
beneficial or is it beneficial to more
businesses than it is disruptive? And
I'm still in the latter camp. There is a
lot of companies that are going to
benefit significantly from the AI build.
You're already seeing profits high with
employment, you know, profits to
employment not significantly elevated.
So, we're in a bout right now where
we're looking about we're looking at the
disruption which always happens when
there's technological advances, but
history suggests that there's always far
more beneficiaries than there are um
businesses that are
>> different for you though, a
self-described FOMO guy who's not
willing to lean into where the pain is
right now. Is it fair to say bit of a
change?
>> Bit of a change, but I'm always looking
for opportunities. So, I have a fear of
missing out, you know, across the broad
market. And so it doesn't mean that I
need to always be buying um into dips or
into you know falling knives um just
looking for where the opportunities lie.
And you know again that that FOMO is
good that FOMO doesn't always exist
Jonathan most of the time and it exists
when leading indicators of the economy
are improving and the Fed wants to ease.
I'm definitely a fo
>> at times this has felt like a falling
chainsaw and not a a falling knife.
Michael Argetti said this yesterday. if
you're going to underwrite a narrative
of AI disruption, you also then have to
say, well, what does that mean for the
productivity and margin improvement in
the rest of your book? And I actually
thought that was a really good point
that he made just yesterday.
>> Well, that you could have an offset from
some of the uh gains that you're seeing.
For example, KPMG is saying, look, we
can we're going to get lower prices
because we can lower the costs of some
of our accounting from AI. How much is
that sort of the analog to a lot of
other companies? That said, how many
business models go to zero? And that is
what people are scared of. And that is
the reason why some of these stocks are
falling out of bed. That is the reason
why the loans tied to some of these
software companies have fallen 10 15 uh
cents on the dollar in just the span of
a week. This is a fear of a fundamental
shift in the reality for this uh
justification.
>> I'm so happy you brought up KPMG. I
think it's astonishing that this
Financial Times has this exclusive story
that they're going to their auditor and
saying we know that AI is working. They
should know because they also are an
auditor. They are an accountant and
they're saying we need a lower price or
we're actually going to dump you. And
that's what's going on right now behind
the scenes in corporate America and
Global Wall Street.
>> I wonder how many people read that this
morning and thought, you know what, I'm
going to call KPMG and ask them the same
thing.
>> Exactly. This is a disinflationary kind
of boom that people are talking about.
Question is, how many business models
get absolutely blown out of bed and how
many of those business models are
levered?
>> It's a pricing power shock that we all
need to navigate over the next several
years and maybe beyond. Brian, it's good
to see you. Thank you, sir. Brian Le
there of Invesco on this equity market.
Equity futures doing just about okay
with positive by 0.5% on the session.
That is a session high. Let's get you an
update on stories worldwide this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Here's Vonnie
Quinn. Hey, Vonnie.
>> Good morning, John. Thank you. Amazon
shares trading lower in the pre-market.
The company announcing its latest
results and plans to spend $200 billion
on data centers, chips, [music] and
other equipment this year. CEO Andy
Jasse says the money will predominantly
go to the company's cloud [music] unit
and most of that spending will be for AI
workloads.
Stantis shares plunging Italian trading.
The car maker announcing it would take
more than $26 billion in charges in a
sweeping overhaul of its electric
vehicle strategy. The writedowns follow
similar moves at Ford and GM. [music]
Stalantis will encourage the charges
during the second half of the 2025
fiscal year.
Anthropic is releasing a new version of
its AI model designed to perform
financial research and other workplace
tasks. The company says Claude Opus 4.6
[music] can scrutinize company data,
regulatory filings, and market
information to come up with detailed
[music] financial analyses. And that is
your Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Hey Vonyie, thank you. Thanks for the
update. More from Vonyie in about 30
minutes time. Up next on the program,
big techs big wipeout. [music]
It feels like Deep Seek and Liberation
Day are happening at the same time.
There is a sentiment overhang [music]
just generally speaking and some things
are just being thrown out in you know in
conjunction with and might not be
justified [music] in our view.
>> A conversation up next with Sarah Kun of
Cleo Capital live from New York City
this morning. Good morning. [music]
>> [music]
[music]
>> It's the bounce this morning. Let's see
if it sticks. Equity futures up by 0.6%
[music] on the S&P 500. The Nasdaq up by
0.7. The Russell up by more than one
full percentage point in the last
[music] 24 hours. some concerns about
the real economy trade off the back of a
handful of data points. It's worth
passing through them. Check out the bond
market. Two-year bond yields [music]
with a reset lower. We're down by 10
basis points just yesterday. This
morning we're up by [music] three 34790
still sub 350. Challenger job cuts plus
jobless claims just pushing back against
the enthusiasm that built after looking
at the ISM manufacturing [music]
and services. The idea was that even if
you saw some sort of violent rotation in
some of the tech trades, [music] you did
see the fundamental economy benefiting
if anything from the capex uh boom that
you're seeing, this really challenged
it. And [music] each data point was
messy. And you could come out and you
could explain why each one is
inaccurate. [music] And Stephanie Roth
will do that later today. But if you
look at them in aggregate, it paints a
different picture than some sort of
screaming stability in the US economy.
>> Well, let's talk about another data
point. [music] 200 billion. How's that?
$200 billion. the capex intentions of
Amazon. Check out how [music] the stock
reacted down 7.7%
so far this morning. Call it 7.8. Just a
bit of push back this week from the
equity market. [music]
>> As Lisa would say, Amazon uh the CEO
woke up and said, "Alphabet, hold my
beer." Because it was insane how much
they were [music] willing to spend on
capital expenditures. What is so
interesting is AWS, which is really
important to cloud and this whole future
for AI, for Amazon, [music] did really
well. Double digit percentage. They are
doing really well. But the fact that
they're [music] just spending too much
it people think it's not equal to how
much how well a AWS is doing.
>> Down by close to 8% of the pre-market
20520 on Amazon under Savannah [music]
this morning. Big techs big wipe out.
>> It feels like deep seek and liberation
day are happening at the same time.
There is a sentiment overhang just
generally speaking and some things are
just being thrown [music] out in you
know in conjunction with and might not
be justified in our view. Um, but it's
very very tricky and it you have to be
very picky in terms of your exposure
when you're thinking about going in and
that doesn't mean that sentiment's going
to change overnight. Here's the latest
this morning. Amazon pledging to spend
big on AI this year. Investors concerned
it might not pay off. Tech stocks
posting their biggest 3-day route since
Liberation Day. Sarah Kun of Cleo
Capital writing just because the market
goes down doesn't mean it's a buy the
dip moment. Sarah joins us now for more.
Sarah, welcome to the program. We've
seen these convulsions across several
pockets of the market now. crypto,
precious metals, software stocks. Is
this the start of something bigger?
I
>> I think it's a continuation of something
bigger. Um, you know, the economy is not
where we want it to be. Consumer
sentiment is not at an all-time high.
Uh, you know, the news coming out of
America right now politically, uh, it's
stressful. And so, I think you're
starting to see all of that converge
with a level of capex spending that
doesn't feel sustainable. Um because the
reality is these data centers don't
really create great jobs. Uh you're
going to need a lot of AI spend and we
don't know where that's going to come
from to justify uh filling up these data
centers with chips that that do
depreciate in value pretty rapidly. And
so I think it's all kind of coming to a
head at once, but it certainly is not
just starting. This is a continuation.
>> Well Sarah, let's talk about the data
we've seen so far this week. So ISM
manufacturing was really encouraging at
the start of the week. Then we had three
data point yesterday. that were much
less encouraging. The challenger job
cuts, jobless claims, and then a little
bit later in the morning, job openings,
vacancies fell back. How much weight
should we put on yesterday compared to
the ISMs at the start of the week?
>> I I think that we are in a moment,
unfortunately, where we have to really
really lean heavily on that private
data. Um the reality is that that the
government has sort of a narrative that
they want to push um that that might not
be sort of aligned with the reality of
what we're seeing on the ground. And so,
you know, I think AI is part of the
slowdown in hiring. Um, I don't think
it's the whole story. I think that the
overall weakening economy is a big part
of that slowdown in hiring. Um, you
know, we've all kind of forgotten about
tariffs from last April. Uh, but they
are having a big impact in in terms of
everything from tourism dollars to
tariffs. Uh, the US economy isn't what
it once was. And that means that you're
going to see less hiring and over time
more firing. On a fundamental level,
Sarah, that would challenge the
broadening out trade that some people
have been really leaning into the
rotation into everything else in the
economy. On the other hand, people will
say, but but but we're looking at $650
billion being spent by four big
companies just this year alone. It's got
to go somewhere. How can you pair these
stories of a question of how much a US
market can broaden out in the face of
relatively weak economic data and then
paired with these monster capex
programs?
Yeah. So, you know, I think a lot of the
the broadening out is going to happen
outside of the US. Uh we're seeing a lot
of non- US indexes um go from strength
to strength. We're seeing a lot of money
uh that's interested in tech go right
now into uh areas like South Korea that
that have, you know, a lot of similar
companies. Um and so we're seeing money
go into the Samsungs of the world, um
into indexes like EWY. Uh we're seeing
that that, you know, Fitzy 100 has been
having a great year. So, I think people
sort of remembered that America is not
the entire global stock market. It just
felt that way for a decade. Um, and
we're starting to see a lot of
broadening out there. And then on the
capex spend, at the end of the day, if
these companies can't show how they're
going to get paid for the data centers
they're building and for the chips that
they're buying, it it's hard to see who
really benefits besides Nvidia.
>> So, given what we've learned this week
and given a sell-off in a number of
these shares, what do you do with this?
What would it take for you to come back
into US megga cap tech other than
Nvidia?
>> Yeah, it it's it's really a case by
case. Uh you know, there are names that
I think are still screamingly
overvalued. The Palunteers and Teslas of
the world. Uh you know, the the
valuation, the stock price just does not
reflect the revenue uh by orders of
magnitude. Uh those aren't names that
that I would buy the dip on. And then
there are other names that I think are
getting beaten up a little bit. Um I
love Alphabet. Um, I've long thought
that they will be kind of the ultimate
AI winner. Um, they are, you know,
certainly spending a lot on capbacks,
but they also have loads of cash on the
sidelines. They have a bunch of money
coming in from their advertising. They
can actually make money on Gemini,
unlike a lot of the other a lot of the
other platforms because it's already
baked into existing business models they
have. Um, and so I would look at that
much differently than, you know, an
Oracle where Oracle has a lot of
different irons in the fire right now
and it's hard to say, hey, is there
really the focus on any one thing that's
going to drive, you know, loads of
revenue in the next couple years?
>> Sarah, when you mention Gemini and you
basically say unlike others, are you
talking about Open AI? Because I
remember in Christmas when you joined
me, you were saying how they don't
really have the runway potentially for
the rest of the year and they're going
to go out and they're going to fundra.
But what does this moment actually mean
for a company like OpenAI that plans to
IPO?
>> I mean, if if you take the tenor of Sam
Alman's tweets, he seems like he is a
very stressed out man right now. Um, and
for good reason. You know, we all saw
last weekend uh the sort of odd dance
between him and Jensen around will they
won't they with this hundred billion
dollar investment round. Um, you know,
there's not a ton of money um that has
come in. the competitors, the anthropics
of the world, Gemini, um are doing a
very good job. Uh we see we see open AI
shifting to business models that feel
not a position of strength, right?
Whether it's letting adults be adults or
uh you know bringing advertising into
the model when that's not something
that's really core uh to to their
strengths or or historically to their
business proposition. What we're not
seeing is loads of enterprise revenue
despite being told for years that that's
where they were going to make that
money. And so, yeah, there's huge
concerns about how Open AI is going to
be able to afford to pay Oracle um in
those roundtrip deals that we spent so
much time talking about last year.
>> Sarah, you mentioned Anthropic. Let's
finish on anthropotic. To what degree do
you think that company right now is
punching above its weight, making waves
that maybe its market position doesn't
actually justify?
>> You know, I think that that they are
really focused on enterprise business.
They're really focused on building, you
know, things like coding tools. Um, time
will tell if that works or not. I sort
of tune out that noise. Um, they're not
really a consumer company and so uh, you
know, they love to kind of be a
counterpoint to OpenAI, certainly to to
Elon Musk, uh, and Grock and that that
works well for them in the press. It
probably helps them fund raise from a a
different sort of customer. Um, but at
the end of the day, what I think they're
going to be judged on in their current
trajectory is can they get enterprise,
can they get engineers um to go into
their their work budgets and pay them
for their coding tools. And if they can,
um, that'll be a big win. Um, we also
don't know over time where Gemini is
going to go in that space. If Gemini
decides that they really want to take
that business on head on, um I think
that that could be really tough for
Anthropic, but for now they seem to be
safe on that front.
>> Sarah, appreciate your thoughts. Have a
good weekend. It's good to see you.
Thank you. Sarah Kunster of Cleo Capital
on Amazon. Check out the move in the
pre-market. A big single name mover for
us this morning. Down by about 8% later
on this morning. We'll catch up with Gil
Laura of DAD Davidson. He's got this to
say this morning. Losing the lead,
downgrading the stock to neutral. AWS
continues to compare unfavorably to
Microsoft and especially Google Cloud.
Falling behind also means Amazon has to
accelerate investment beyond the $200
billion of capex. Amazon may not have a
choice but to follow through with a $50
billion investment in OpenAI
>> which raises this question of where all
this money is going to and can open AI
hold its weight. But they continue to
say AWS accelerated by 24%. they posted
an 24% gain in their cloud computing
unit whereas uh Google's Azure the cloud
uh unit posted a 48% gain. So they're
growing faster albeit not nearly enough
for the market because the market wants
much bigger gains.
>> We'll catch up with Gil at about 8:15
Eastern time a little bit later this
morning a few hours away. So look out
for that. Coming up on the program we'll
catch up with Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall
as Treasury Secretary Scott [music]
Besson spars with senators on Capitol
Hill. Plus, Yahira has your morning
movers. Stellantis plunging 24%
as [music] it reverses course on its EV
strategy. Some big numbers, some bad
numbers coming out of that company. That
story up next.
[music]
Equities [music]
bouncing back. Here's equity futures for
you. Up a half of 1% on the S&P 500
following a 3-day slide. The biggest
3-day drop going back to November.
Compare the S&P 500 to the equal [music]
weight S&P. The S&P is down about 2%
this week. The equal weight is actually
higher. The pain concentrated in places
like the Nasdaq [music] 100. The Nasdaq
heading for its worst week going back to
Liberation Day [music] last April.
Switch up the board and get to the bond
market. Bond yields at the front end of
the curve, lower by 10 basis points in
yesterday's session. Following some
weaker than expected data, [music] 34769
this morning, still close to the lows of
the year at the front end of the curve.
But check out this in the FX market.
This is the story for me not talked
about enough. The dollar is on course
for its best week [music] of the year,
which speaks to just how inversely
correlated it was with risk appetite.
Best week of the year for the US dollar
as the markets begin to sink. This
wasn't about debasement. It wasn't about
sell America. It was about risk
appetite. Well, it seemed like people
when they did become riskaverse then
went back into the dollar. I will note
all the trades that are doing the best
[music] are some of the ones that were
beaten up particularly at the end of
last year. So, it also feels like all of
the consensus trades at at the beginning
of this year got violently reversed and
that's what we're seeing and the dollar
is part of that and so the sell America
trade coming under question.
>> It's seen it cascade through financial
markets over the past few weeks. Lots of
single names out there including a big
move for Amazon and Stellantes. Let's
get you more. 3 hours away from the cash
open with your morning movers. Here's
Yhira. How you
>> exactly John? Amazon is the latest
company getting punished for for [music]
spending big. Shares are falling 8% in
the pre-market as it pours $200 billion
dollars into AI infrastructure. It's a
move that CEO Andy Jasse insists [music]
is necessary, saying that at AWS they
are monetizing capacity as fast as they
[music] can build it. Still, investors
are concerned since the spending is
already projected to hit the bottom
line. Amazon's forecast for operating
income in the current [music] quarter
did come in below estimates. Meanwhile,
that is creating some winners and it is
in the chip space. [music] We are seeing
Nvidia, AMD, and Broadcom all higher
this morning, just as we saw when we got
Alphabet's massive capex number just
this [music] week. But we'll see if
they're able to sustain this momentum
because yesterday only Broadcom ended in
the green and only by slightly. I will
say Nvidia is outperforming the Mag 7
this morning, up 3% in the pre-market.
And we end on Stalantis. Shares are
plunging here, down nearly 25% [music]
as the automaker said it will take a 26
billion hit as it scales [music] back
its EV ambitions. Uh Stellantis
admitting that it bet too aggressively
on EV demand that just [music] didn't
show up. It joins the likes of Ford and
General Motors which also [music] took
multi-billion dollar write downs for the
same reason. John
>> Yahara, thank you. Painful and it's been
a long time coming. The kitchen sink
finally coming from that company and
maybe there's more work to do. As for
Broadcom, I'm pleased that Yahara
brought that stock up. It's amazing
[music] that we're in this situation
this week where a handful of tech
companies have come out and said they're
going to spend $650 billion this year
and on the week Broadcom is lower by 6%.
I saw a number of analyst notes over the
uh overnight actually pointing to AVO in
particular and saying look they should
be doing a lot better because ultimately
they will be a beneficiary. People don't
have a sense of where this money is
going to go otherwise you would imagine
all the semis all the semiconductor
stocks would absolutely be ripping
because
>> [music]
>> $650 billion is a lot of money. I spent
way too much time last night trying to
calculate what you could buy for $650
billion. I came up with some really
creative [laughter] things.
>> What did you come up with? Well, I'm
just thinking to power New York City
costs about $15 billion a year. [music]
So, how many cities would you have to
finance? How many nuclear power plants?
Maybe $15 billion. What about a
spaceship that goes up to space and
tries to create some of [music] the uh
potential data centers, data centers in
space? I mean, it just starts getting
comical when you start looking at how do
you spend this money this quickly in
this kind of scale.
>> I was listening to Guy Johnson earlier
on this morning. The German federal
budget for the year ahead. How about
that? I mean, that's insane. That's the
German federal budget. So this is you
start to wrap your head around this and
you think okay well this should be a
broadening out [music] but are they just
competing with each other to sort of
solidify market share reserve things
that aren't going to really come. Is
this fictitious or is this actually
real? I mean it's hard to get your head
really uh to wrap around.
>> Those numbers are big on our radar this
morning. Amazon [music] adding to big
tech spending spree. The retail and
cloud giant joining Alphabet Meta
Microsoft and exceeding capex estimates.
The four companies forecasting about
$650 billion in AI spending this year.
Elsewhere, Anthropic releasing a new
version of its AI model specifically
designed for financial research and
office workflows. This coming just days
after the company's expansion into legal
services sent shock waves through the
software industry. And finally, Bitcoin
finding a floor following its steepest
single day drop since the FDX collapse
back in 2022. The world's largest
cryptocurrency nearly falling below
60,000 for the first time in 16 months.
>> This is to me a really interesting story
under the hood. How much is this part of
the violent rotation uh that we're
seeing right now? Bitcoin has lost more
than a trillion dollars since its peak
in October of 2025. About half of its
value. A question here about how levered
this fund, this this money was, how much
this comes with outflows that aren't
coming back, and how much institutional
investors are willing to go back into
this market. That ultimately is the
reason why people find it interesting
that there is a floor here. Nonetheless,
an existential question of what exactly
the role is for Bitcoin at a time where
it's not providing an offset to risk
appetite.
>> No, it's trading like a risky asset. And
you actually saw this come up this week
with the Treasury Secretary. He was
asked about this. Could Treasury have
the authority to buy Bitcoin or the
cryptocurrencies? He says, "I don't as a
Treasury Secretary and I also don't as
the chairman of FSOC." So basically that
whole idea that there were some
Republicans actually pushing for that.
That was dead. Taking stock of things,
it's kind of impressive that we've had
these crash level moves in places like
crypto, in places like precious metals
and software stocks, and yet the index
is still within 3% of all-time highs on
the S&P 500. That's quite something.
>> What struck me is the lack of fear this
week. We saw these really violent moves.
We've seen semiconductors. We've seen
software stocks down 30% from some of
the highs over in October. And yet, not
a lot of fear. Some people come in, they
say, "This is way oversold. We're just
waiting to find a place to go in." And
it's because of that stability in the
overall index. If the economy cracks,
that changes. And that's the reason why
yesterday was a different story.
>> Excited about the rotation until a
couple of data points. We'll see if
that's backed up over the next week.
Let's turn to Washington. The Treasury
Secretary Scott Besson and the
Democratic Senator Elizabeth Warren
fighting it out on Capitol Hill.
Can you commit right here and now that
Trump's Fed nominee, Kevin Walsh, will
not be sued, will not be investigated by
the Department of Justice if he doesn't
cut interest rates exactly the way that
Donald Trump wants?
>> That is up to the president. Uh, can you
commit that you will can you commit that
you will not hold up be sued if it
doesn't drop interest rates? If this was
a joke, why not just say so? It it was a
joke and he made a joke about you too,
Senator Warren. Got got a lot of laughs.
>> Besson's comments coming after President
Trump's joke about suing Fed chair
nominee Kevin Walsh over interest rates.
Blimbo's Tyler Kendall joins us now for
more. Tyler, it looked like they were
getting along just yesterday.
>> I mean, uh, John, this was a rather
contentious two days of hearings for
Treasury Secretary Scott Besson on
Capitol Hill. This was perhaps the most
heated exchange before the Senate
Banking Committee between two people
that often spar with each other. But the
Treasury Secretary there saying that it
would be up to President Trump about
whether or not to sue or order the
Department of Justice to investigate a
potential Fed chair Kevin Worsh if he
does not drop rates, appearing not to
rule out the potential. Now, as you
mentioned, Warren's comments were
referencing these reports from over the
weekend that President Trump had joked
about the possibility. Though we should
say he was asked directly about those
comments afterwards by reporters on Air
Force One and the president said it was
quote all comedy. But still the Treasury
Secretary's remarks came after an
equally contentious hearing uh the day
before in front of the House Financial
Services Committee where he declined to
express a view about whether or not the
president has the legal authority to
remove a member of the Federal Reserve
Board over policy disagreements, saying
that ultimately he's not a lawyer and
that's going to be a matter that has to
be decided by the courts. though he did
go on to say that he does believe that
the Federal Reserve is an independent
agency. But yesterday the Fed pick was
definitely front and center because this
is the Senate Banking Committee. This is
that gatekeeping committee that has the
ability to block Kevin Worsh's
nomination from proceeding to the full
Senate floor. And as Senator Tom Tillis
has said on this program numerous times,
he's not going to let up on his threats
to follow through in blocking that
nominee until the legal matter uh
against Fed Chair Jerome Powell is
ultimately resolved. And John, I
actually had the chance to catch up with
Senator Tillis yesterday. He told me
he's still not backing down on the
threats. He told me that he's not in
touch with the White House on them
either at this point in time, that he
has no idea when a potential
confirmation hearing date is ultimately
going to be set.
>> Tyler, great reporting yesterday. also
saw you spoke to Senator Kramer who
basically told you this is a waste of
time. Do you think more pressure is
building from Republicans in Congress on
the White House on the DOJ to just drop
this investigation altogether?
>> Right, Amory, we're starting to see
almost a a theme emerge, a common thread
here because Republicans are trying to
thread the needle with uh going with
President Trump's criticism against
Jerome Powell, but they're against how
it's ultimately manifested in this
investigation against him. And I spoke
to a lot of Republicans on the Senate
Banking Committee, this key committee
yesterday, that are saying while they
disagree with Power Powell's stewardship
of the Fed, they don't think that his
testimony uh amounted to anything
criminal. Because we have to keep in
mind the DOJ investigation. It isn't
necessarily about those cost overruns.
It is about whether or not Jerome Powell
misled Congress about those cost
overruns. I spoke to Kevin Kramer. I
spoke to Cynthia Lumis. I spoke to
Senator Mike Rounds. uh numerous who
have told me that they don't think that
what Jerome Powell said ultimately had
criminal intent and that they want to
see this investigation wrapped up as
quickly as possible. In fact, Amarie,
they say that that actually shows why
they are in favor of the president's
policies that they want to make sure
that this investigation can go away so
that they can get Kevin Worsh confirmed
as quickly as possible.
>> That might take some time. Tyler, thank
you. Tyler Kendall down in Washington
DC. Let's park the legal issues and just
focus on the data. Who do you think
sounds better right now? Chairman Pal
last week. Indicators suggest the
conditions may be stabilizing in the
labor market. Governor Chris Waller,
there is considerable doubt about future
employment growth and suggest that a
substantial deterioration of the labor
market is a significant risk. Based on
the data in the last 24 hours, Governor
Waller is sounding a lot better than
Chairman Pow.
>> It feels like the market is one big
applause audience and it seemed like
everyone with with Jay Powell until
yesterday and then all of a sudden it
was like all right, we're going to head
over here to uh what we hear from Chris
Waller. Look, we don't know. And I think
that ultimately is the real question.
And there's a lot of disagreement on the
Fed committee, which is the reason why
it is so important to understand which
Kevin Worsh we're getting to understand
what the leadership will be to guide
what is otherwise an incredibly
bifurcated committee.
>> More data next week. Payroll's
Wednesday, I believe, February 11th.
We'll be playing that game. So, looking
forward to it. Let's give you an update
on stories worldwide this morning with
your Bloomberg brief. Here's Vonyie
Quinn. Hey, Vonnie.
>> Hey, John. Thank you. Iran and the
United States are negotiating to
deescalate tensions. Tehran saying the
talks are the first stage of a longer
diplomatic process. The US delegation
led by Steve Witkoff, Iran's by its
foreign [music] minister.
Toyota shares rising in Japanese
trading. The company naming a new CEO
Kent Khan who will replace [music] Koji
Sato who will become vice chairman in
April. Khan served as Toyota's CFO as
well as AO Toyota's personal secretary
for almost a decade. [music]
As CFO, he oversaw a period of record
annual earnings and worked on nextgen
cars and mobility technologies.
Revan Howard Asset Management's Meal
Biswall is one of the world's most
successful macro hedge fund managers
making billions of dollars. He hasn't
had a single down year since he started
managing money during the 2008 financial
crisis. His fund has scored wins on
everything from Korean interest rates to
Asian currencies. [music] And that is
your Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Hey Vonyie, thank you. Appreciate it. Up
next, a memory crunch.
>> The industry [music] is now defined by
the availability the memory that is uh
is going to be available for consumer
electronics and it creates you know a a
a sudden change in how OEMs look at of
their build plan. [music] Up next we'll
catch up with Bloomberg's Mandep Singh
live from New York City. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
>> [music]
[music]
>> So, here's the bounce. We're up by 0.6%
on the S&P 500. Announced bounce on the
NASDAQ as well. Likewise on the Russell.
We'll see if it holds following the
route over the past 3 days of the
Russell 2000 higher by 1.26% on the
NASDAQ up by 3/4 of 1%. The numbers
[music] this week absolutely humongous.
Let's go through them company by
company. Amazon 200 billion. Capex
[music] intentions over at Alphabet 185,
Microsoft around 100, Meta 135, 650 in
total. [music]
Absolutely ridiculous promo to try and
get your head around. And when you try
to get your head around, the numbers
seem even more ridiculous. But what
really is getting people off guard is A,
these numbers are growing much more
quickly than the [music] underlying
revenues or profitability. And B, the
fact that the numbers keep climbing so
much far beyond analysts [music]
expectations. So it raises a question,
what is the end point? If you're
tripling and doubling every single year,
at what point do you start [music]
slowing your spending?
>> Mandep Singh of Bloomberg Intelligence
joins us now for more. Mandep, imagine a
number, then treble it. You know, that's
where I'm at right now. I I just can't
get my head around it all, man. Deep.
How are these companies going to spend
$650 billion this year? What aren't?
>> Yeah. Look, I mean, I I think everyone
highlighted supply constraints and the
fact that they didn't have enough
capacity otherwise they would have grown
faster. So, that sort of justifies the
increase in capex. But you're right. I
think the kind of increases we are
seeing probably Google is the only one
who has earned it because their cloud
revenue grew 48% and the infrastructure
side actually was north of 50%. And
they're doing it at you know incremental
margins of at least 30 40% compared to
an Amazon where the margins are going
down and yes the growth did accelerate
but it's coming at the expense of
margin. So to my mind, you know, there
is this rush going on in terms of
securing supply at TSMC. And the bigger
you are, I think the chances are you
have a better shot at securing supply.
But if you add up all the capex which
you have on the screen, TSMC cannot make
as much in terms of you know the needs
that these companies are highlighting
with their capex number. So they have to
significantly ramp their own capex, you
know, the semicap equipment purchases to
be able to service this kind of demand
that they're seeing from the
hyperscalers. So it'll be interesting to
see what Nvidia guides to because Nvidia
hasn't moved. I mean uh Nvidia should be
up right with all the capex increases.
So there's something that at least
limits right now in terms of what kind
of upside uh Nvidia may end up seeing
because of these capex increases. So
Mandep here's my question for you. What
do you think we hit first? Serious
supply constraints or the limits of
investor tolerance?
>> I think we are already seeing uh some
sort of uh investor panic in terms of
the free cash flow expectations uh for
this year and beyond if this rate of
capex continues because for public cloud
businesses the baseline capex was more
around $40 billion. Now we are three to
four times that. If that doesn't
translate into revenue at the same pace
and yes you have to invest upfront to
bring the capacity online but at some
point you have to ask yourself if I'm
doing it you know at the expense of
margins and free cash flow uh how long
do I sustain and and that's where the
questions were asked for Oracle. I mean
there was a push back with Oracle
because everything was tied to open AI.
I don't know who are going to be
Amazon's customers for the $200 billion
in capex. Is it all inferencing or is
there a big training component because
inferencing workloads are the only one
that translate into cloud revenue.
Training is more of a sunk cost. Yes,
you're going to get a better model but
you're not going to be able to monetize
it right away. So all these questions I
think will become clearer as we go
through uh probably the next two three
months.
>> Mandep Sync breaking it down. Thank you
sir. Bloomberg's man Deep Singh,
Alphabet might be the only company
that's earned it. That's my takeaway
from that conversation.
>> And this is something that others have
pointed to as well, including Gallura
pointing to the 48% gain in their cloud
computing business versus a 24% gain in
Amazon, raising a question of are the
others just playing catch-up. So here's
the take from VCaria of Bank of America
expecting this capex boom to keep the
party going for semiconductors writing
despite a wall of worries chip stocks
are off to a solid start marking the
second best January in the past 20
years. VC joins us now for more. VC
welcome to the program. It is strange to
see numbers this large and then look at
Broadcom down 6% on the week. What
explains that?
>> Yeah good morning John. Um I think first
um principles we have to understand that
the companies that we are talking about
um right these companies with billions
or hundreds of millions of subscribers
they cannot grow 15 20 30% without
investing in infrastructure. Investing
in infrastructure is the only way that
they are able to scale their offerings
and provide a lot of value ad to their
subscribers because look the number of
subscribers are not growing 20 or 30%
for a meta or others. I mean it already
has 3 billion subscribers. So how does
somebody like a meta grow 30%. It's by
extracting more value. So that's point
number one that you need to invest to
extract more value and AI is that
intelligence that helps you extract that
that value. Now in terms of what we have
seen so far from uh semis this year is
kind of a tale of two cities. Uh we have
seen phenomenal gains from semicap
equipment from memory from optics uh
from uh the analog uh names. I think we
could have uh the first trillion dollar
of sales in semicaps in semiconductor
sales but the larger names the Nvidas
the Broadcoms the AMDs have not
participated yet because I mean they're
not just great semiconductor companies
they also happen to be part of the mega
cap uh sector which is under a lot of
pressure from rotation but we think
fundamentals are strong you know
valuations are are very compelling so we
think it's just a matter of time before
the mega caps catch up also
>> Vivic how much more attractive do you
think that Nvidia and Broadcom and AMD
are because they've sold off and because
they're getting this infusion of massive
capex spending from the other mega caps.
>> Sure. I think part of this is a market
uh call as well that um you know these
companies are phenomenal execution
machines, they are phenomenal growth uh
machines. Uh but they are also exposed
to the daily uh headline uh noise and
narratives whether it's around open AI
and funding, whether it's about uh the
relationship between uh US and China.
And to be fair, this isn't the first
time, you know, we are seeing this.
Remember last year, uh, the socks index
was up over 40%. Uh, both these stocks
did extremely well despite a year where
we started with deepseek, you know, then
we went to liberation day and then we
had so many arrows thrown at them. So
these stocks are are volatile. You know,
they are periods when uh they um, you
know, are in the background. But as as
we just discussed uh the fundamentals
are exceptionally strong and these
companies are the the S&P 500 index is
trading at one and a half to two times
earnings growth and these stocks are
trading below one times earnings growth.
So in our book that's extremely
compelling
>> as I was lost in rabbit holes of trying
to figure out how to spend $650 billion
last night. I was thinking what's the
constraint on pricing power for the
likes of Nvidia? I mean if everybody
wants their chips or TSMC for that
matter if this is basically locking in
capacity going forward why can't they
just jack up the prices? Why can't they
double them? Why can't they triple them?
I mean, what is the limit that really
holds them back?
>> Sure. See, ultimately they are selling
to a group of uh customers who are
extremely sophisticated uh who do have
other options and who have to make sure
that the price performance matches the
offerings they are able to sell to their
uh end customers. And uh if I look at
generation to generation of let's take
Nvidia's uh you know hopper to blackwell
generation pricing probably went up 30
to 40%. But the performance went up uh
anywhere between two to four times um
right generation on generation. So what
we are getting is multiple factors of
performance improvement for 20 to 40%
increase in price. But no the answer to
your question is that yes these
companies have great pricing power. I
mean look you know Nvidia has you know
70 75% gross margins but at the same
time they have to realize that uh every
new generation of product they put out
there has to be a more um you know more
dollars of performance per unit price u
because there is not just inflation in
chips you know there's also inflation in
procurement of land and power and shell
and in our book actually those are
probably bigger constraints than than
the chips uh itself in the roll out and
and I think the good thing is with those
constraints it might actually add a lot
more discipline into this uh roll out of
AI services.
>> VC, I just want to finish on investor
tolerance. I think that's an important
topic to end the week with. These
companies, these chip players that you
cover are only going to be as rich as
their biggest customers and the spend
from their biggest customers rest on the
investor tolerance of the investors in
those companies. Are we starting to see
some real push back this week that might
constrain their ability to spend and
ramp up spending in the years ahead?
>> Sure. Uh what I will also say John is
that spending is not always offensive in
nature right you don't always spend to
grow sometimes you spend to protect your
turf also so you know without taking a
specific you know customer name imagine
you know if you have a search empire or
an e-commerce empire right or a social
empire um right you are the largest
player but now you see a group of these
disruptive private companies after you
and remember these companies were all
private in right uh when they started
and they disrupted somebody else's
business model. So now you have to say
what can I do to ensure that I not only
grow at an acceptable pace that I also
protect right my empire and then
importantly I also uh grab all the
eyeballs I have all the customer
relationships in place and it just takes
upfront spending to do that and in the
past what did we have we had a lot of
cash sitting on the balance sheets doing
nothing and now that cash is being put
to productive use in my view
>> hey VC appreciate your time thanks for
jumping [music] on for us there of bank
of America on the chip names that should
benefit from some mass passive spending
from a handful of companies. Up next,
we'll catch up with Pria Measer of JP
Morgan, Janette Lois Strategica, Stefan
Sloinsky of Beat Parabar, and Michael
Collins of Pym [music] Fixed Income. The
second hour of Bloomberg Surveillance up
next.
[music]
It's a strong macro backdrop, not just
in the US.
>> This is still a hotish economy. I think
it is a loosening labor market. [music]
Lots of statistical issues.
>> There's a lot of difficulty in reading,
I think, the trends.
>> The data has just held up just so well.
We think the data will tell the story.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, [music] Lisa
Abramowitz, and Ann Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. From our
audience worldwide, the second hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now.
Your scores look like this. as a 3% move
ever felt so bad. Equity futures on the
S&P 500 up by 0.6 on the Nasdaq up by
0.8. A feature of the market this week.
To see that move right there and this
move right here, Amazon in the
pre-market [music] getting absolutely
hammered after a $200 billion capex
spend for the year ahead down 7%. To see
that stock down seven and the NASDAQ
still higher is kind of the story of the
week so far.
>> Lzanne Saunders had a great quote
yesterday where she said, "Rotation is
the new momentum." And ultimately,
you're seeing violent rotations
underneath the surface. It is notable
that we're talking about $650 billion of
capex spending. One newspaper said that
Amazon, Google, and Microsoft are set to
lose a combined $900 billion of market
capitalization since their earnings
reports. These numbers are almost
fictitious at this point. It's hard to
get your head around them. The fact that
the market has continued to chug [music]
along is predicated on the idea that the
spending is going to go somewhere and
that the economy is solid. If that gets
challenged, this story changes. Is the
equal weight just short of an all-time
high? The equal weight this week is
actually up on the week even with these
kind of moves that we've seen. 10% on
Microsoft, 8% on Amazon.
>> Well, so it's under the surface where
all this is going on, but under the
surface, it's absolutely brutal,
especially given the fact that everyone
has been looking at these names to
continue to carry [music] the equity
market. I cannot wait to talk to Gil
Lauria because when he talks about
Amazon, he's saying the negative
reactions result of bigger increases to
capex than to AWS revenue. [music] AWS
had actually pretty good revenue, but it
wasn't good enough. up and what do we
just hear from VC? A lot of this
spending may be individuals trying to
protect the perks that they have right
now.
>> Always find that moves like this bring
the best out of Wall Street. Great quote
came from Michael Cantraitz over at
Piper Sandler with this to say. I think
we're seeing the unwind of a three-year
economic and market bifocation that's
beginning to broaden out. [music]
>> I love that, especially given the fact
that yesterday it was a jobless
recovery. It was the jobless expansion.
Uh the problem with this is that you
need the real economy to participate
with some sort of gains if you do get
this sort of right sizing of the
economic benefits that we've seen over
the past couple of years. And yesterday
the trifecta of what we got with
challenger job cuts, [music] then what
we got with jobless claims and then what
we got with the Jolts numbers raised
questions about just how durable that
story is. So right now the ultimate
question is as we get this violent
rotation, [music] do we get the economic
boom that so many people were hoping
for? Does that $650 billion go to things
that we can relate to or just sort of
fibers that go up into space?
>> If last year tech capex was more than
40% roughly 40% of GDP growth in
America, what is it going to be this
year at $650 [music] billion just from
those companies?
>> People are looking at that as being
something like 2% of the US GDP. But the
truth is we have no idea where this is
going. We don't know if this is land. We
don't know if this is promises to TSMC
to get them flowers when they give them
their chip orders. How much do we have
an understanding of exactly how they
[music] are going to spend this in a way
that actually be will be expansionary?
>> A lot will go to chip companies.
Broadcom, Nvidia trading positive in the
pre-market by 3 to 4% so far. Equities
up by 0.7 on the S&P 500. Coming up this
hour, we'll catch up with Priisra of JP
Morgan as Wall Street looks to find a
flaw. Stefan Slinsky of BP Parabar as
software stocks shed billions in value
and Michael Collins of PG fixed income
as weak labor data weighs on investors.
We begin this hour with stocks finding a
firmer footing after a three-day tech
route. Pria Misra of JP Morgan writing,
"The market is trying to figure out the
AI winners and the losers." Pria joins
us now for more. Pria, good morning.
>> Morning.
>> Bond market is the clear winner this
week surely.
>> Indeed. And that diversification aspect,
that fixed income, that treasuries, that
duration, you know, I think a lot of
people sort of stay in the front end.
The front end doesn't give you that
much. It's really the five year, 10
year. So, we've been saying this is the
revenge of diversification. you know, it
was not very popular to own duration,
but we've been thinking 375 to 4 and a
quarter is sort of that 10-year range.
We went above it, sell America, you
know, just a lot of supply, the tax
refunds, all of that sort of got us
above that. We think that's an
opportunity, you know, but ultimately I
think we're in this point where we don't
know, you know, uh remember when sort of
AI capex was all that the market was
looking for last year. I think the
market's pushing back. the market wants
to see there's a bit of a show me show
me the productive users of that AI capex
show me how people are using it I mean
we're using it to sort of reduce the no
joy work as as uh uh you know we put it
but is that going to displace us is that
going to just disrupt us I think that's
what the market's trying to figure out
we're not going to get answers very
quickly this is such a generational
transformation we're going to live in
this bumpy ride and this is why I would
say you know sort of watch positioning
look at fundamentals and then Make sure
that you own those hedges. As the market
starts, if the market starts to say that
maybe this is overdone, that's when you
you're going to need those hedges.
>> You threw some mud at the sell America
trade. At least that was how I
interpreted it. So, let's get into that
a little bit. This was an important
stress test over the past few days. How
important is it to see that the dollar
and bonds is still inversely correlated
with risk appetite.
>> So, on bonds, I would say we have a lot
more faith there. The dollar still looks
a little overvalued. Now it was very
heartening what we saw yesterday but on
rates. So where does that correlation or
negative correlation come from? It comes
from the Fed reaction function. I think
that's still very much there. I mean we
have a divided Fed. Chow said that
there's no urgency. But you see a rise
in the unemployment rate or you see a
clear sign that we're moving from a low
higher low fire to low higher pickup in
fire or high fire, you're going to see
the Fed react aggressively. This is not
a shy Fed. Irrespective of the chair, I
think the divisions will actually go
away. I mean, the other thing is it was
AI inflationary or disinflationary? I
think that's been another debate in the
macro world. I think I'm looking at as a
macro person, I'm looking at price
action and the p the market's telling
you it's disinflationary. Now, we have
to see it in the data and I think we'll
see it later half of this year as
inflation starts to get low. I think the
Fed's telling you they might cut. So on
your point around that diversification I
think bonds tell you the Fed response
with the dollar we still have to see
there's a lot of value globally we're
seeing cyclical pickup look at ISM so
there still may be some pockets of
weakness in the dollar but I think you
know price action like yesterday does
tell you this is why you should have a
diversified portfolio and on the sell
America I mean we're not seeing it in
the credit market I think that would be
one that I would look at the equity
market's so much about AI and software
way. Look at the credit market and
that's where there's incredible calm as
we've had a lot of supply.
>> There's a lot to unpack there. You just
start talking about how a lot of the
bond market is trading on the idea of
the Fed reaction function. Isn't the Fed
reaction function pointing to a pretty
negative outcome for the US economy
right now that they're cutting rates for
the wrong reasons, which is a slowdown
in the labor market, not because of the
disinflationary boom from artificial
intelligence.
>> So, great point. I think in 2024 the
rate cuts were about the labor market.
um in 25 it was more inflation and I
think we're going to have to figure out
these rate cuts. Is it what you know
Kevin Walsh has talked about this
productivity boom with the supply sides
kicking in and the Fed needs to cut
that's actually good news for risk
assets. I I don't know if we see it in
the data productivity is high but it's
like a difficult it's a residual. So I
don't know if I buy that. If it is a
rise in the unemployment rate I think
the market might cheer that we get lower
rates. I would be careful because if the
labor market's turning, it tends to
trend and then rate cuts will take a
while. We're going to have to look at
fiscal. Do we get more than uh you know
just the tax refund? So I see your
point. Rate cuts, you know, lower rates
for the wrong reason is negative for
risk assets. But I think if the Fed is
aggressive, if we see a small rise in
the unemployment rate and the Fed starts
to cut aggressively, I think the market
might cheer as it has for the last two
years. how reactive, how aggressive the
Fed will be that can sort of impact risk
assets.
>> You said something else which is that
you could see that foreign institutional
investors are still going into US
credit. They're still liking the US uh
financing mechanism for guess what some
of these big tech companies which are
accounting for a greater and greater
proportion of the overall uh broad
investment grade index. Does that worry
you? Do you see anyone pulling back and
saying hold on a second what exactly are
we financing? So, you know, we have I've
joked before that when you call uh
people to the bond party, you know,
everyone gets a little nervous. And I
think there was some of that late last
year. We're going to see it again. How
much of this capex is going to be
financed by the bond market? I think and
how much is going to come from
elsewhere. I think the market is the
ultimate disciplining factor. And we saw
this with Oracle. There was concern 50
billion in bonds. Well, I'm going to
want a little bit more concession there.
But it it uh you know they actually
issued only half of that and then you
look at the book. So I think when we
think about fixed income people have
been very underweight fixed income. When
they think of fixed income they
sometimes think about the front end
because they say well there's no divers.
We don't know about diversification and
there's not a lot of income. Well guess
what you're getting 5 12% in high
quality fixed income. And this is where
I will say let's look at the companies.
We still think these companies you know
whether it's the software names they're
still tight. So we have we're not like
you know saying that that's very cheap
that's going to widen. I think you look
at the fundamentals, look at leverage
ratio, look at cash flow, there's still
lot of good value and I think people
look at fundamentals, they see that 5
1.5% 6% all in yield and they buy. So
we've still seen, look at the order
books, there's going to be supply as
long as these companies don't overdo it
and really swamp the bond market. I
think we're seeing that demand spreads
might be a little wider. There's more
dispersion actually. That's, you know, I
think this is why we're seeing it in the
high yield market. Look at loans versus
bonds. I think we're going to see it in
the investment grade market as all of
this 650 billion starts to get financed
and if somebody overd does it in the
bond market they're going to cheapen and
this is why active management
fundamentals
we're all over our research analysts
every single day multiple times a day I
think this is the time when you know I
don't know it's a it's a bond market you
know stock picker equivalent time
because there's going to be a lot of
supply that's going to come in and we're
going to have to pick and choose what
we're overweight
>> pri you mentioned uh or the fiscal
impulse is any of that inflationary when
it comes to the one big beautiful bill
that you'd be worried about.
>> So a lot of what was in the one big
beautiful bill was extension of the tax
cut. So I don't see that as being
inflationary. I think there's this talk
of tariff uh you know the uh the tax
refunds. I think if it goes to the upper
part of that K it's going to get saved.
It's going to just expand the K. Where's
that income distribution of the tax
refunds? There may be some sort of sugar
high but that's for a couple of months.
for the first maybe second quarter if
it's not already been spent. Um so I
don't see a whole lot in the one big
beautiful bill. Now if you get tariff
dividends you get something additional.
I'm not sure how they get that done but
I think additional fiscal stimulus can
be inflationary not what we're seeing
from the uh from just the one big
beautiful.
>> Should we finish on the yield curve twos
versus tens just off the steepest level
since January 2022? What do you think
that's sniffing out? I think this the
steepening in the curve particularly
what we saw yesterday is the market
pricing more cuts in the front end and
sort of keeping the long end here it's
also a global story I mean we have the
Japanese election on Sunday along with
the Super Bowl so we'll be watching that
>> that is our super bowl prayer you know
that continue please
>> we'll be seeing if global bond is that
term premium increase in the long end I
think uh you know I think that's well
priced let's hope for not you know not a
lot I would prefer duration over the
curve but I think the curve is telling
you that if the Fed's going to cut, it's
likely to impact the front end much
more. But I think owning the 5-year, if
you don't have a strong view on the
Japanese election or how quickly the
Fed's going to cut rates, I think, you
know, duration feels like better
riskreward given current levels.
>> I think there are stronger views on a
Japanese election around this table than
there are on the Super Bowl, but we'll
leave that there. Pria, thank you. Pria
Misra of JP Morgan in the bond market
tens in a moment, 420, twos at 348. I'm
just thinking if Bad Bunny's uh playing
at the halftime show for the Super Bowl.
>> Taki's got got us covered, right?
>> Is is it is it gonna be Taylor Swift? Is
it gonna be, you know, or you think
Taiichi is gonna do it personally?
>> Wow. Oh, yeah. Cuz she was in a band, so
she can actually have her own time show.
>> Where was going with this?
>> Okay. Well, that's so good. All right.
Sorry, I blew it.
>> Let's move on. Let's get you an update
on stories elsewhere this morning with
your Bloomberg brief. Here's Vonnie
Quinn. Hey, Vonnie.
>> Hey, John. Thank you.
The search for Today Show co-host
Savannah Guthriy's mother is entering
its sixth day. The FBI announcing a
$50,000 reward for information leading
[music] to Nancy Guthri's recovery or
the arrest and conviction of people
involved in her disappearance. The Puma
County Sheriff's Department says neither
a suspect nor person of interest has
been identified in the case.
President Donald Trump launching a new
website to [music] apparently help
Americans buy select medicines at a
discount. The president saying more than
40 medications will be available through
the site including Novo Nordisks Ompic
and WGOI for $199 as well as EMD
Serono's facility treatment [music]
fertility treatment.
OpenAI is rolling out a new platform
called Frontier [music] designed to help
companies deploy AI agents more easily.
The company says Frontier aims to
simplify how businesses roll out AI and
accelerate adoption among corporate
customers. The tool will also allow
firms to integrate AI agents from rival
firms including [music] Anthropic. And
that is your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Bonnie, thank you. More from Vonnie in
about 30 minutes. Up next on the
program, casting doubt [music] on the
PAL probe.
>> Whether he had criminal intent is not my
decision.
>> Was it criminal? I don't think so.
>> So, uh, I would like to see the
investigation wrapped up quickly.
>> Until the investigation is done, I will
oppose any board uh, confirmation.
Up next on the program, we'll catch up
with Janet Lo of Strategus from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
[music]
Single name price action has been
[music] absolutely massive. Amazon down
by 7% in the pre-market. Intended to
spend $200 billion [music] in capex for
the year ahead. punished because it's
not putting up the same growth numbers
that [music] we've seen out of a company
like Alphabet. But a feature of the week
is this right here that you can have
single name moves of this size move this
much and the damage is limited at the
index level to this. The S&P 500's
higher on the session by 0.5%. [music]
And even when it's traded lower, we're
down like by what 2% on the week. We're
within 3% of alltime highs on the S&P
500. [music]
this rotation beneath. I know a lot of
people are talking about the same thing,
but I don't think you can overstate the
importance of it given the price action
we've seen so far over the past few days
>> and the magnitude of the rotation away
from certain areas. You talk about the
software stocks that are down some 30%
from the highs that they had last
October. You look at Bitcoin that is
down about 50% from its high in October.
It is violent, but it is a rotation. It
isn't necessarily Armageddon. That said,
a real question of how much this is
predicated on the growth of the economy
and how much is this going to be
predicated on the use case for some of
this incredible capex spend.
>> The price action in the last 24 hours
had a different [music] flavor. It
wasn't just about software stocks. It
was also about the real economy and
maybe just opening the door just
slightly to a conversation about
interest rate reductions. Under surveis
this morning, casting doubt [music] on
the PAL probe.
>> He obviously didn't tell the truth about
the renovations. Whether he had criminal
intent is not my decision.
>> Was it criminal? I don't think so.
>> I was at the hearing where some have
said um Chairman Pal perjured himself
and I didn't hear anything that could be
remotely considered to be perjury. So,
uh I would like to see the investigation
wrapped up quickly.
>> Until the investigation is done, I will
oppose any board uh confirmation.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
Republican senators voicing skepticism
on the DOJ's investigation of Fed Chad
Jay Powell as President Trump says DC's
US attorney will take it to the end.
Bloom's Tyler Kendall joins us now for
more. Tyler, that's some real Republican
push back through this week.
>> Right. Exactly, John. I mean, numerous
Senate Republicans told me that they
increasingly view this Department of
Justice's investigation into Fed Chair
Jerome Powell as this unnecessary
roadblock that could stall Kevin Worsh's
nomination, which they broadly support.
I spoke to a lot of members of the key
Senate Banking Committee who told me
while they broadly agree with President
Trump's criticism of fair Fed Chair
Jerome Powell, they don't agree with the
investigation that's resulted. Because
we have to keep in mind the nuance here
is that the DOJ's probe is looking into
allegations that Powell misled Congress
about the Fed's renovations to its
headquarters here in Washington. The
probe isn't just about the cost overruns
themselves. It is about that testimony
that Powell gave to the Senate Banking
Committee. So, all those members that
you just heard from actually heard from
Powell in real time when it comes to the
testimony in question and they're saying
that they don't think that he had that
criminal intent and that there's
anything here for the DOJ to
investigate. Now, to be sure, a lot of
them still told me their criticism of
the Fed chair, but they actually say
that it is their support of President
Trump's agenda that actually makes it
make sense for them to wrap up this
probe as quickly as possible. Because as
you well know and you just heard from
Senator Tom Tillis there, he says he's
going to block any nomination until that
legal matter is resolved. And they want
to see Kevin Worsh confirmed as quickly
as possible. John, perhaps the
staunchest criticism of this probe came
from a really staunch uh ally of this
White House, Kevin Kramer of North
Dakota. He told me that he thinks that
this is a distraction and a waste of
time. The question now becomes, what
does the DOJ do? Because as you said,
President Trump says he wants to see
this investigation taken all the way to
the end.
>> Tyler Kendall, thank you. Joining us now
to continue the conversation, Janette
Low of Strategus. Janette, if Republican
senators, in Tyler's words, are calling
this a waste of time, how much more time
are they going to waste?
>> Yeah, it's a great question. I mean, I
think that as Tyler pointed out, this is
literally something that the Republican
senators are now thinking we need to get
this uh investigation concluded. we need
to kind of clear Powell, which is
something that Tom Tillis is looking for
because they do need his vote to move
Kevin Worsh through the Senate Banking
Committee, and they would like Kevin
Worsh to be confirmed before Powell's
term ends on May 15th. So, I do think
you'll probably start to see some
movement there to get this done, which I
think especially what we've seen coming
from various senators yesterday was
really important to see that they really
do also want to get this moving
somewhere a little bit more quickly. um
because this is an important uh
distraction potentially for getting
Kevin Worsh ultimately on the Fed
>> movement from who is it the DOJ to wrap
it up or for Fed to actually also comply
and send the information that the DOJ is
asking about in terms of the
renovations.
>> Yes. So I mean I think that's a little
bit to be determined right there could
be that maybe the Fed just hasn't
responded to the questions yet. Maybe
they just need to respond to the
questions and then the DOJ will kind of
finalize um the investigation and say
that there's no wrongdoing here. Um
maybe it's some other form that that
needs to take. But it there there
probably is a way that this could be
handled relatively quickly so that we
can actually move on from this and then
actually the Senate Banking Committee
can bring in Kevin Worsh and actually
have his confirmation hearing.
>> You sound hopeful of a quick timeline.
If we don't, do you just expect Powell
to be chair until long?
Yeah, I mean this is a really important
question and obviously there there is
discussions about what happens if you
know there there is no one confirmed to
be the Fed chair when Powell's term
ends. What happens? Does it become the
vice chair? If there's no vice chair, is
there a possibility that the vice chair
could resign? You know, those are all
things and then ultimately the board
could reappoint Powell. The other big
question obviously is does Powell stay
after his term expires? I think this is
a really important question for what
Kevin Worsh would like to do at the Fed.
Um obviously whether or not the
president can get another appointee onto
the board of governors. The they do want
to um engage in financial deregulation.
Vice Chair Bowman has a proposal that
she may announce as quickly as this
month. Um so they do need to actually
move forward on that. That's going to be
key to Borches trying to um reduce the
size of the Fed balance sheet. But they
also need a majority of the Fed board
members to vote for the most aggressive
plan they could have right now. If
Powell remains on the Fed that could
limit the ability for them to actually
get to that majority. So his staying on
or not is going to be a key question
moving forward as to how things actually
proceed. Um and also what might happen
if there is no Fed chair confirmed
before his term expires.
>> While we wait for the next edition of
Bachelor in Purgatory, Janette, I am
curious going forward. It is a midterm
election year and we are going to expect
a number of proposals to try to cater to
how people feel which isn't great and
has to do with the affordability issues.
We saw yesterday President Trump coming
out with Trump RX trying to lower costs
for prescription drugs. What else do you
think is in the works for this year as
uh the midterm elections get closer?
>> Yes. So I mean I do think this is going
to be a key focus for the midterm
elections. you saw it be a key focus for
the November 2025 elections to focus on
this issue of affordability and Trump
has definitely picked up the mantle of
this quite a bit more in the past few
weeks. So obviously we had the uh
prescription drug price proposal come
out yesterday. We do think they're going
to try to do things on housing. Um some
of that would be related to again
whether or not um you know not even
necessarily trying to do legislation or
anything of that nature, but maybe what
happens with the Fed and what happens
with the Treasury. Those can be
important pieces um for the housing
market. The other big thing obviously is
there are these large tax refunds that
are going to come out. The tax refund
just started last week. We'll definitely
start to see more of those come out that
will be very beneficial for consumers.
Will it be enough before the election?
They probably don't think so. They'll
probably try to come up with some other
ideas. Presidents tend to be more
populist in the second term of their
presidency because voters are a little
bit sour on the how things are going.
So, we could definitely see more
announcements. We'll be looking to the
State of the Union to see if stuff comes
out there. Um, but I don't think that
there's a lot more that is actually
going to get enacted. We don't think
that there are going to be tariff
refunds that are going to come out
because you would need Congress to do
that. But, you might see them try to
move things like permitting reform um
and things of that nature. But, I think
the president will continue to talk
about it. But we don't see a lot of
movement for more proposals to come
forward.
>> Janette, thank you. Janet Low there a
strategist. Those final few points
really, really important. The three
tailwinds for the economy this year, the
tax refunds, the monetary policy
stimulus already in the pipeline, and
then $650 billion worth of spending from
just four companies. And if you're an
adviser to the president and you sit
there and you tell him that, how patient
can he be? How much can he rely on those
three things going into the midterms?
Well, how patient could one person or
how how patient can President Trump?
Right now, it doesn't seem like anyone's
particularly patient just because the
polls are reflecting a serious concern.
And I have to say the $650 billion. When
I pay my electricity bill, am I
competing with Amazon? I'm serious. This
is actually a serious question. I'm
really glad you brought this up because
the Michigan Attorney General is
actually going back to the utility
saying, "These data centers, I don't
want to go ahead with this just yet. I
don't trust these companies." She
literally called them [music]
untrustworthy when it comes to OpenAI
and Oracle. The push back is real. It's
not a risk. It's happening. Coming up
next on the program, Stefan Slovinsky of
Bimpy Parabar on the selloff in software
stocks.
[music] So, deep breath. Here's the
bounce. Three crazy days. Equity futures
on the S&P up by 0.5% following the
biggest 3-day decline going back to
November. Over that period, down by
2.55% on the S&P 500. Yesterday, a bit
of a different character to things
though, and we've talked a lot about
that so far this morning. It wasn't just
about tech stocks. It was across the
board. Financials, energy, [music]
consumer discretionary, only two major
sectors in positive territory at the
close yesterday, utilities and consumer
staples. And that was off the back of
weaker than expected economic data. So,
switch at the board and let's talk about
this sell America. [music] We've all
read that headline a few times, haven't
we, over the past few weeks. Was it a
South America trade or was it just
consistent with a pickup in global risk
appetite? And once that reversed, did
the money come back to bonds? Did it
come back to the US dollar? That's what
we saw yesterday. 2-year bond yields
down 10 basis points this morning, up by
three, still sub 350 at 348. And in the
FX market, worth noting [music] the
dollar is on course for its best week of
the year so far, which would speak to
the idea that this wasn't about sell
America. It was about a pick up in risk
appetite globally with an AI twist. And
when that unwound, the money went back
into the US dollar. There certainly was
a reversion of a lot of the trades that
had gotten popular earlier this year.
With this with respect to the bond
market, it seems like the Fed very much
in focus and the possibility that they
could cut rates more significantly. With
the dollar, a real question about the US
economy and how much it can grow despite
some of the disruption that you're
seeing under the hood. That I think is
going to be what you have to watch going
forward to see whether [music] this is
sustainable.
>> Bond investor is the only people popping
champagne this week. The bonds work and
they've been trying to tell people that
for a while. If I ran a utility, I'd be
popping champagne, too, because I could
charge whatever I wanted for
electricity. I mean, there are some
people who are popping uh champagne or
maybe a box of of Lays because
ultimately that also is gaining some
today. Uh but we're looking right now at
a market that is incredibly bifrocated
and people are seeing a disinflationary
boom under the surface and that I think
is benefiting [music] fixed income.
>> It was an important stress test for the
bond market this week at least. And
let's see if that correlation, that
inverse correlation with risk sticks for
the year ahead. yields higher by two
basis points on tens 420. Plenty of big
movers out there including Amazon. Let's
get to your morning movers with your
Hierra. Hey you Hira.
>> Hi John. Big tech $650 billion spending
spree is helping to lift the names part
of that buildout. The chipmakers we are
seeing Nvidia, AMD and Broadcom all
higher in the pre-market though. We'll
see [music] if we're able to sustain
this momentum. And as you guys were
talking about Champagne, this momentum
[music] keeps fizzling out since only
Broadcom yesterday managed to end the
day in the green and only by slightly.
And as you said, John, all these stocks
[music] down on the week. Meanwhile,
moving on to Stalantis where shares are
plunging in the pre-market down [music]
now nearly 28% as the automaker says
that uh it will take a$26 billion hit as
it scales back [music] its plans for
EVs. Uh, Stalantis admitting that it bet
too aggressively when it [music] came to
EV demand that just didn't show up. So,
it's joining the likes of Ford and
General Mo Motors taking multi-billion
dollar write [music] downs. And we end
on shares of him and Hers. They are
falling more than nine nearly 9% in the
pre-market as it faces [music] FDA
scrutiny and a legal challenge from Novo
Nordis stemming from its announcement
[music] this week that it will sell a
cheaper unapproved version of Novo's WGO
pill which is a drug still under US
patent [music] and yes at one point HIMS
was able to sell compounded versions of
drugs since they were in short of supply
but that no longer applies since Novo
does have plenty [music] of supply. So
you are seeing Novo shares up 6% in the
pre-market. John
>> Yahara, thank you. More from Yhira in
the next hour. Speaking of popping in
Champagne, this headline just crossed
the Bloomberg terminal. The bonus pool
at Goldman, JP Morgan, and Bank of
America rising at [music] least 10%.
>> So some smiles out there, I'm sure.
>> Congratulations. You guys also get
champagne along with your utility
company that's going to be getting some
of that uh bonus check. Look,
>> these weren't the people worried about
paying their utility bill at the [music]
end of the month.
>> I would agree with that. They probably
are the people who also are benefiting
from some of the IPOs that could come
down the pike from the likes of OpenAI.
Let's see what that looks like later
this year. But clearly they've been
doing well and you have seen that war
for talent really heating up on Wall
Street.
>> The latest on bankers [music] pay there.
On our raise out this morning, Amazon
shares dropping on plans to spend $200
billion this year on data centers,
chips, and other equipment. The move
bringing total capex for the four
largest US tech companies to about $650
billion this year. Elsewhere, Atlanta
shares falling as the company announces
$26 billion in charges to reverse course
on EVs. The right dance following
similar moves by fellow car makers Ford,
GM, and Porsche. And finally, a clash on
Capitol Hill. Treasury Secretary Scott
Besson and the Democratic Senator
Elizabeth Warren sparring once again.
Can you commit right here and now that
Trump's Fed nominee, Kevin Walsh, will
not be sued, will not be investigated by
the Department of Justice if he doesn't
cut interest rates exactly the way that
Donald Trump wants?
>> That is up to the president. Uh, can you
commit that you will can you commit that
you will not hold up be sued if it
doesn't drop interest rates? If this was
a joke, why not just say so? It it was a
joke and he made a joke about you too,
Senator Warren. Got got a lot of laughs.
>> President Trump joking about suing Kevin
Walsh at a dinner in Washington last
weekend. Besson testified yesterday that
Walsh is highly qualified to lead the
Fed.
>> All right. There's nothing that I can
say that can actually be more
entertaining than that. That's just
clearly entertaining. It's kind of like
my boys at the dinner table uh ragging
on each other. I mean, that's what it
sort of feels like. whether we're moving
toward any kind of clarity on what
President Trump's interference or not
will be with Gon Worsh. Whether we're
moving toward clarity, sorry to like
throw some cold water on this because
it's very exciting, but I'm I'm looking
for the news here and it's that they had
a very exciting sparring match that they
can both put on their social media uh
accounts and look good.
>> And they both did. And then I went, you
know, chasing after what the joke was. I
found out what the joke the president
made about Elizabeth Warren. But the
joke he did make about suing Kevin
Walsh, he already told us on Air Force
One reporters, he said, "Look, it was a
roast. It was a comedy." And then he
said to NBC News, "If Kevin Wars came in
here instead of want to hike interest
rates, no, he wouldn't have gotten the
job." So, we know where the president
stands.
>> Don't bury the lead. What was the joke?
>> The joke was Warren got turned away from
the Alpha Alpha dinner because she
didn't have a reservation. And it goes
after what Trump always calls her
Pocahontas because when she ran,
obviously a lot came out about how she
said that she has heritage back to the
Native Americans in America. So, that
was his joke about Elizabeth Warren. And
then Besson said, "Look, it got a lot of
laughs. He was trying to engage with
her, but she was not having yet.
>> He He managed to make a smile. Kind of.
Just about. Okay, let's turn back to
tech. A single anthropic plug-in
providing even more fuel for the
sell-off. The S&P 500 software index on
track to wipe out a trillion dollars in
value since the rap began. Stefan
Sloinsky of BMP Parabar writing, "Should
software companies show stabilization in
their core businesses, investors may be
willing to live with long-term
uncertainty. For now, investors are
saying, "We'll believe it when we see
it." Stefan joins us now for more.
Stefan, good morning to you. Are you
reassessing the multiple that these
companies deserve?
>> Yeah, so at B&P Par this week, we've
been helping investors trying to
understand what's being priced into
these stocks. It's difficult when you're
talking about technology disruption.
Obviously, you're talking about uh a
lack of visibility on long-term cash
flows and long-term growth. Uh we've
looked at sort of reverse DCFS and some
of these stocks are already pricing in
um declining growth going forward. Um,
and when you look at free cash flow
yields, most of the sectors already
trading on kind of all-time lows in
terms of uh free cash flow multiples
here. So, it's difficult. Um, and I
think that's the uncertainty that we're
seeing. Um, and so what we've seen this
week really is a combination of uh one
uh uncertainty um you know really uh
causing uh people to doubt their
positions and two is fatigue. It's been
three years, Jonathan, and we're still
getting every single week a whole slew
of announcements around AI, and I think
that leads to three, which is
capitulation.
>> We've seen some of that in some stocks
like Salesforce. Salesforce is down 28%
so far year today, Stefan, do you think
there are opportunities already opening
up? And you mentioned your conversation
with clients. Are you pointing them in
the direction of certain names and can
you share them this morning?
>> Uh, yeah, absolutely. um you know there
certainly there is a uh part of the
market we're starting to see long only
investors who are kind of dumping the
sector um which is a problem of course
because it takes longer to recover from
that um but I think when you look within
software if you think that the the capex
uh pressure is overdone then you look at
a Microsoft uh for the first time in 10
years Jonathan Microsoft is trading
below an S&P 500 PE multiple um and so
that's an opportunity for a company
where people are worried about the
capital expenditures if you Look at SAS
as you just mentioned with Salesforce.
Uh you've got about a 9% free cash flow
yield. You have no free cash flow risk.
Um sorry, you have no uh capex risk. Um
and you have arguably potentially two
homerun AI uh products in data cloud and
agent force. So that's one that we would
be looking at if you think the SAS
selloff is overdone. And then if you
look at the kind of throwing the baby
out with the bathwater category, look at
a snowflake. Uh you know, these are
companies that should benefit from AI.
AI is actually causing an acceleration
of moves to the cloud, what we've been
seeing for a decade. And so someone like
a Snowflake who actually benefits from
that um you know is also seeing their
stock heavily under pressure. Um and
also that company already has a
consumptionbased business model. So
there's no seatbased disruption risk.
>> Stephan, as we talk about numbers like
$250 billion with just sort of a a brush
of the hand, is there power in scale? Is
there power in numbers? Do you agree
with Dan Ives that you're going to see
some real consolidation in the software
space?
>> I'm not sure how quickly consolidation
is going to happen. Um, but we certainly
could over time. Um, you know, that's
what we've seen in the past during
periods of stress. That's what we've
seen in the past during periods of of
transition of of uh new platforms. Uh,
the problem is of course right now a lot
of the stocks that are under pressure
are under pressure for a reason. Um, and
I'm not sure the market would react well
to some of the big players acquiring
some of those businesses, even maybe if
it's the right thing to be doing. I
think what investors are looking for is
managements and insiders to step up and
start buying their own stock. Um, I
think that would really kind of instill
some confidence rather than just telling
investors the selloff is overdone, maybe
launching some corporate buybacks.
Management teams need to step up,
insiders need to step up uh, and show
the confidence they have in the outlooks
of their own businesses. Stephan, given
the scope of the losses, are you
surprised at how orderly this process
has been? How it hasn't come with uh
broader market losses and it hasn't come
with a broader wave of existential fear?
>> Well, I think as you pointed out uh over
the course of the show this morning,
there there are lots of crosscurrens.
This isn't just about software. This
isn't just about AI. There's lots
happening within the market. Um so, uh
you know, we're seeing that impact
different asset classes. I think for
software what investors are coming to
the realization of is the only thing we
know for sure is we're going to get more
models we're going to get more money
more infrastructure and more
uncertainty. Um so the one thing that we
know is that you know we're going to
have Grock come out with new models from
XAI. We're going to have Meta come out
with their models. They're going to have
capabilities that maybe will spook
people in other industries. Um, and
that's one of the challenges for
investors is every week there's a new
model that's strong in a new area that's
going to spook some of the incumbents.
Um, we're going to get more money. Uh,
as has been publicly reported, uh,
Anthropic maybe $20 billion raise.
OpenAI hundred billion raise. XAI being
bought by SpaceX gives them cash flows
now to to to invest more. That's going
into the infrastructure. So, $700
billion of capex now this year from the
big five. Um, and all that's just going
to lead to continued uh uncertainty. And
so I think investors are growing
fatigued of that. They don't see an end
in sight. Maybe some of them are looking
to pick up names, but we're not seeing a
lot of it.
>> Stefan, when you say that some of these
management companies should step in,
basically they should put the money
where their mouth is. Who do you think
would be right to do that and do some
buybacks?
>> All of them, any of them. Um, so you
know, I think in terms of the the
buybacks, we're seeing that already. uh
uh at the corporate level, a company
like Adobe, which of course has been
under pressure for a couple of years
now, trading on a 9 or 10% free cash
flow yield, doing a significant amount
of buybacks. Uh that's kind of the
Oracle playbook. Oracle was dead for a
decade. They bought back 40% of the
company over a decade. Um and so we're
starting to see that already. Salesforce
is doing that. They're taking the share
count down. Um but the second part that
we need to see, like I said, is the
management teams themselves, the CEOs,
the CFOs buying stock. We saw a little
bit of that at SAP with the CFO stepping
into the market and making a million
dollar plus purchase of stock. We need
to see more of that.
>> Stefan, appreciate your time. Thank you,
sir. Stefan Sinsky there of BMP
Parabart. Some of the carnage we've seen
in software, Microsoft year to date down
by close to 20%. We have lost $671.2
billion in market cap since the start of
the year.
>> What name?
>> I mean, this is the reason why it's
notable that the market that the overall
index isn't down even more. What is the
metric for success or for the lack
thereof? It is the growth of your
underlying cloud business, your growth
of the application of these services
paired with the growth of your capital
expenditures. Are you spending in order
for it to be defensive to preserve your
turf or is it to be offensive to win
capital market share and that I think is
what people are focusing on.
>> We've got a bit of a bounce so far this
morning. On the NASDAQ, we're higher by
0.6% on the NASDAQ 100. on the S&P up by
0.5 with an update on stories worldwide.
With your Bloomberg brief is Vonyie
Quinn. Hey Vonyie.
>> Hey John, thank [music] you. Republicans
on the Senate Banking Committee are
raising doubts over the DOJ's
investigation into Fed [music] Chair Jay
Powell. Republicans increasingly view
the probe as an unnecessary roadblock in
a confirmation process for Kevin [music]
Worsh. Senator Tom Tillis said he would
oppose any Trump Fed nominee until the
issue is resolved.
Work on a $16 billion Hudson rail river
rail tunnel project has come to a halt.
The Trump administration decided last
year [music] to freeze funding for the
tunnel, which was expected to ease
congestion between New Jersey and
Manhattan. The Gateway Development
Commission has sued the federal
government in an effort to unlock more
than 205
million.
Tesla is looking at multiple sites
across the United States [music] to
start manufacturing solar cells. Source
is selling us here at Bloomberg. The
company plans to expand production at
its Buffalo, New York facility and at
another factory in that state. Tesla
also weighing Arizona and Idaho for new
additions. And that is your [music]
Bloomberg brief. John,
>> thanks Vonnie. Appreciate it. Up next on
the program, signs of weakness in the
labor market. [music]
>> It's a complex job market. Um is a
complicated situation and complicated
data. You could get a zero or negative
number. And I think that's where the the
underlying pace of job growth is running
somewhere right around zero. Michael
Collins of PGM [music]
joins us next.
[music]
No guarantees. There never are. But
these are the moves this morning and
we'll see if they hold into the open and
ballet beyond. Equity futures positive
by 0.5 on the Nasdaq up by 0.6. On the
Russell, that outperformance again
returns the Russell 2000 higher by
1.23%. There was a different flavor to
it all yesterday. We talked lots about
that extensively so far this morning.
The weaker than expected economic data
putting a bid into the bond market.
2-year bond yields down by 10 basis
points. 2-year yields down to 34831.
10-year yields up two this morning to
about 420 [music] in the middle of the
range over the last few weeks. Under
Savannah this morning, signs of weakness
in the labor market.
It's a complex job market. Um is a
complicated situation and complicated
data. Month after month, people are
telling us jobs are becoming harder and
harder to get. So, I think it is a
loosening labor market. Lots of
statistical issues. If we get a big
update to that birth death model, you
you could get a zero or negative number.
And I think that's where the the
underlying pace of job growth [music] is
running somewhere right around zero. So
here's the latest this morning. Jobless
claims and challenger job cuts raising
concerns about the labor market with the
delayed payrolls report due on
Wednesday. Michael Collins of PGM fixed
income writing. The labor market is
flashing more red lights. The last
handful of data points are all starting
to hit levels of change typically
associated with recessions. Mike joins
us now for more. Mike, good morning.
Begs the question, is this time
different?
>> You know, I I don't know, Jonathan.
We've been on kind of a five-year
pattern here. Ever since kind of the
boom in the supply and demand for labor
following COVID, we've been on a gradual
slowdown, as we've been talking about
for for months now, if not a couple of
years. It seemed like over the last
couple of quarters, maybe the labor
labor market was stabilizing at a at a
kind of a weak level. Uh but certainly
the last handful of data points as you
just pointed out uh look like a kind of
a reaceleration to the downside. But
again, you know, you need a lot more
data to really determine a trend, but
the labor market looks weaker, right?
And this whole kind of battle that the
Fed is fighting, this tugofwar between
inflation and and labor feels like the
the labor market will win out.
>> Governor Chris Waller doesn't need more
convincing. He already voted for a rate
cut last week and he dissented. He put
out this statement, Mike. I'm going to
share some of it with the audience if
they haven't read it already. Last
year's data will be revised downward
soon to likely show that there was
virtually no growth in payroll
employment in 2025. Zero zip nada. Let
this sink in for a moment. Zero job
growth versus an average of almost 2
million for the 10 years prior to 2025.
And Mikey goes on to say all of this
suggests that a substantial
deterioration in the labor market is a
significant risk. So Mike, when we're
talking about rate cuts this year and
the market's around 1:2 and we have
economists come on the program say, you
know what, we expect zero. What are you
expecting?
>> You know, it's it's a real tough call. I
mean, one to two still sounds like the
the right number, but I think the the
preponderance of risks, Jonathan, is too
much more cuts or many more cuts than
are are priced in, right? I mean the
market is putting a very low probability
on a funds rate kind of in the twos or
even ones over the next several years
right the markets have kind of uh
consolidated around this expectation
that the funds rate is going to stay
kind of in that 3 three and a half% for
the next year or two and then believe it
or not looking at the steep yield curve
the market is actually technically
pricing in the funds rate to go back to
four you know over the next five years
or or so and I think that's where the
markets are off sides right I think
there's a higher probability that we end
up with a two handle on the funds rate
uh than a three or four over the next 5
years.
>> Is at this point given what you're
talking about in terms of the backdrop a
risk uh free rally or a rally in
treasuries good for riskier assets as
has been thought for a lot of the past
couple of years.
Yeah, Lisa, I know you're talking about
the correlation between stocks and
bonds, the age-old question, and a lot
of our clients and a lot of investors
are still spooked by what happened in
2022 where, you know, everything sold
off together and the correlation did not
work uh on your behalf, but uh we've
been telling uh our clients, listen, uh
this time will be different. You've had
a reset in interest rates, right? Rates
are relatively high. uh there is a lot
of scope potentially for the Fed to cut
rates if they had to. If you did have
that big riskoff moment, if you did have
a deceleration uh in the job market, if
you did did have a big crash, let's say
in the stock market as valuations come
into question, if you did have a
recession, I mean, there's a lot of
scope, right? Trump talks about rate
cuts not in tens of basis points but in
points like a mortgage banker, right?
like rates should be like hundreds of
basis points lower, not not tens of
basis points lower and and and who knows
where we end end up, but um I do believe
that correlation in a downside scenario
uh will will support um you know risk
assets.
>> Listening to you, Michael, I'd rather
buy a 10-year Treasury for get 4.2% in
terms of yield than go into oracle debt
and get 5 a.5%. I mean, how much does
this crimp the appetite to go into debt
that is tied potentially to pretty
ambitious projects that are being put
out there by some of the largest
companies out there?
>> You know, we have that we have that
trade on, Lisa, and uh I think that's
the right call. I mean, the the supply
of debt is one thing, right? It's it's
going to be massive and it's just
starting to increase. A lot of this
capex that you've been talking about all
morning, you know, had been funded by
free cash flow or cash on the balance
sheet. uh and it is increasingly being
funded in securitized credit markets in
real estate markets and in our you know
corporate bond market uh though so that
supply issue is one thing but it's
really the the expectations of of earn
of revenues uh that I don't think are
going to justify this capex build and I
don't think it's going to justify
potentially the valuations on a lot of
these technology companies and and that
alone could certainly cause corporate
spreads to widen uh in sync with with
equities falling. Right. So, we're we're
very defensive on the on the credit
side.
>> You sound very bearish when it comes to
some of those names. You have this
moment in your note. I love the old
adage of don't fight the Fed is being
replaced basically because you can't
fight this presidency. Is that correct,
Michael?
>> Yeah. My, you know, my new line is don't
fight the triumphirates, right? I mean,
you have a president, you have a
treasury secretary, and I'm watching the
debate, you know, between Elizabeth
Warren and Bessenta and uh and and a Fed
chair ultimately, right, who all want
rates to be again a a lot lower, right?
And there are tools these folks can use,
you know, other than oldfashioned, you
know, moving the Fed funds rate around,
right? There are regulatory tools or are
issuance uh tools, right? And and
there's, you know, balance sheet tools
um that can be used. So, you know, I
think it's uh dangerous to assume that
the funds rate is going to stay at 3 and
a half and maybe go to four over the
next 5 years when you do have this uh I
think force uh that that want rates a
lot lower. So, so I think it's a
probably a good move to to stay, you
know, in the bond market to stay long
duration. That's what we're doing. We've
actually been adding a little bit of
duration here on this recent backup, you
know, toward 430 uh on the 10ear.
>> Hey, Mike, it's good to see you. Mike
Collins there of PG and Fixed Income.
Mike, have a good weekend. Mike usually
joins us on payrolls Friday. No payrolls
this morning. We'll get that on
Wednesday. And payroll's taken on a
little bit more importance I think after
the data of yesterday
>> given the fact that we got three data
points. All of them not necessarily the
gold standard that typically payrolls
are. However, highlighting that this is
a weakening labor market and that right
now jobs are just not getting created
and there is a potential for them to be
eliminated.
>> That put a bid into treasuries yields
down to the front end by some 10 basis
points. the first close below 350 I
think since the start of the year, the
first week of January. Up next on the
program, Nadia Levelvel of UPS, Gilura
of DA Davidson, Stephanie Roth of Wolf
Research, and Julia Herman of New York
Life Investments.
[music]
>> [music]
>> There is a sentiment overhang.
>> We're coming to a point in the AI
transformation where dispersion [music]
is much greater.
>> The AI boom is coming.
>> Rotation is the new momentum trade.
>> I think there's a number of narratives
going on and so investors are
increasingly wondering, you know, which
ones do we want to pick?
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> We're almost there. We are almost there.
Almost at the weekend. Live from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
Good morning from our audience
worldwide. The thr of Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Equity
futures on the S&P 500 positive by 0.5%.
Here's the bounce following a 3-day
route on the NASDAQ. We're looking at
the worst week on the Nasdaq 100 since
Liberation Day week back in April of
last year. The Nasdaq 100 looking to
bounce up by 0.6%. Struggling to bounce
this one right here in the pre-market.
Amazon. Amazon $200 billion in capex.
That's the intention for the next year.
The stock is down by 8% in the
pre-market.
>> Just to give some perspective, this
company is spending [music]
significantly more than it was initially
expected to spend. It was expected to
spend something $150 billion, which also
was an astronomic sum. Why are they
doing it? The why is the reason that
people are nervous? It is to catch up to
the likes of Google and Microsoft. And
it isn't necessarily because [music]
they have the opportunity to see
something that's really good. They don't
want to miss something. And that I think
is what is making a lot of people
concerned.
>> 650 billion dollars of spending across
four companies. Surely the chip players
should be winning the week. They haven't
been. They are this morning. Nvidia
Broadcom rallying in the pre-market. In
the last 24 hours, we've talked a lot
about how the character of this selloff
changed that it had a real economy
flavor to [music] it off the back of the
weaker than expected economic data we
saw yesterday. Next week becomes more
important. Payrolls on Wednesday very
much in focus. What kind of data are we
going to see next week?
>> Also sprinkled on top of all of this is
the fact that Anthropic is coming out
and [music] saying look what we can do
for you in some of last night was about
the financial sector. Maybe you don't
need as many people. So that is why jobs
and payrolls are going to be so much
more important not just about the data
we've seen [music] this week but also
what Anthropic is saying about
potentially how AI actually might help
[music] companies reduce workforce not
good for the real economy. There's
something Diane Swank said to me from
KPMG last week when we were covering the
Federal Reserve decision and she was
speaking to Tom and I and she said that
[music] you could see GDP of fantastic
levels but you could see a jobs
recession. Just imagine what that's
going to look like over the next 12
months if that materializes going
[music] into the midterms in November.
>> According to uh Fed Governor Chris
Waller, we may have already seen that
because we might have seen actually
negative jobs growth last [music] year
last year or potentially just even flat.
a real question here about how this
trickles into [music] the politics of
this moment and a real question about
how much you can get ongoing risk
appetite if you do have this type of
pretty uh lackluster backdrop. I mean
again I keep going back to what Michael
Collins just said. If you have that
backdrop, he'd rather own treasuries
than Oracle debt or Amazon debt or
Google debt or some of these others
given the fact that right now you're
getting a pretty good return just on
full faith and credit US.
>> And it's not just the push back when it
comes to individuals and their
employment prospects in America. I
really was struck yesterday. I thought
one of the most important things was the
Michigan Attorney General [music] and
what she is saying in terms of these
contracts are simply too consequential
for the future of energy affordability
in Michigan to keep granting fasttrack
secret review and approvals to
untrustworthy partners like DTE, Oracle,
and Open AI. Massive push back because
[music] consumers are going to be paying
higher energy prices and then
potentially might not have a job.
>> On a lighter note, this from Chris
Harvey, and I hope that the Harvey
family don't read his research. He
[music] said, "The stock market sell-off
is not over. Sell-offs are like fish and
family. After 3 days, it's over or it
starts going south.
We do not think the selloff is over." To
us, the market starts looking
interesting below 6700. Thank you, Chris
[music] over at CIBC.
>> And this is the reason why I don't have
fish cuz within 3 days they'd be dead.
Oh god. Well, I was just going to say,
who's his family? I like hanging out
with most members of my family. Maybe
he's talking about in-laws. Hope they're
not family. Don't read his research.
Equity futures right now on the S&P 500
firmer up by 0.4%. Coming up this hour,
Nadia Levelvel [music] of UPS Global
Wealth Management as the tech route
deepens. Gil Lauria of DA Davidson
downgrading Amazon saying it's losing
the lead in the cloud space and
Stephanie Roth of Worth Research looking
ahead to a key week of data on deck. We
begin this hour with stock steadying
following the NASDAQ 100's worst 3-day
stretch since April. Nandia Lovevel of
UBS Global Wealth Management writing the
following. Sentiment has turned more
negative lately even though market
breath has improved. We think the great
broadening is well underway. Nadia joins
us now for more. Nadia, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Let's get into that that last line. I
think it's important. What's driving
that great broadening and why do you
think it's going to be resilient,
sustainable for the year ahead? You
know, I think it's just the overall
economic backdrop. Like, yes, we're
seeing some selloff in parts of tech
seems to be more technical in nature and
it's not a significant shift in the
macro backdrop. But reality is there's a
lot of pain under the hood across the
P&L. And so, it does feel though that
we're starting to approach maybe the end
of that selloff just given how much
valuation has come in as well as just
the overall pullback that we have seen.
But I think back to your initial
question around the broadening, it's
going to be driven by the global growth
backdrop which can actually surprise the
upside. You know, you have um spending
uh in the four largest economies in the
world, expans expansion happening. You
also have that lag effect from more
accommodative monetary policy and a
potential for a Fed to further ease. And
look, capex is going up for these
hyperscalers. Yes, we know one person's
spending is another's company's revenue.
And so we think that there's a potential
for upside to global economic growth. So
that 2 and a.5% that we have for the US
might actually prove to be more
conservative, you know, and so we think
that that will help to broaden and out.
We're seeing that broadening out in
earnings in the 493 and we think that
that's going to help sustain the market
as we progress in this year.
>> Should we ignore the jobs numbers then?
What's more instructive, payrolls or the
capex intentions of four companies?
>> They're both important, right? um and
that that's going to help the economy on
the business investment uh standpoint.
On the labor market, we do have the Fed
that will come to the rescue. You know,
reality is like yes, the data this week
not very encouraging the labor market.
We'll see what we get next week in
payroll, but even though we had a
hawkish, I would say um press conference
at the FOMC last month. Um T Powell did
note that the Fed does remain the
flexibility to cut rates. And so we
think that if you see any weakness in
the labor market that flies in the face
of that stabilization in the labor
market that Powell had pointed to that
that would pull forward some of those
rates cuts. So we could see another rate
cut in March, you know, before Powell
actually exits. And so we think that
that can give some comfort to this
market. It sounds like you're saying
that the rotation has legs because
either the economy is strong and that's
a great thing or the Fed's going to cut
rates if the economy isn't strong and
that's a great thing for the rotation
trade. Is that basically what you're
saying?
>> Somewhat that. Um, Lisa, absolutely. And
I think that that's why you're seeing
there's more positioning in the cyclical
side of the economy. You know, you've
been talking all morning about the ISM
that we got earlier this week. So, there
clearly seems to be a cyclical recovery
underway. New order growth. We'll see if
that continues the next couple of months
because there might be some quirks in
the data. But I think that that's
helping out the broadening trade across
some of the consumer. We know that
consumer is going to get some stimulus
from tax returns um you know in the next
few weeks over the next few weeks as
well and also I think you know we are
seeing some steepening in the in the
yield curve and that also is helping
parts of financials particularly banks
and so those are the areas that we're
leaning in onto the cycl side that
doesn't mean that we don't see
opportunities on the structural side we
think you just have to be more be become
more selective in tech which we've been
doing over the last couple of months
>> as I hear you talk what I'm hearing is
there's a lot of money out there and
there is a lot of money slloshing in the
system and that's what I keep feeling
also with this rotation that hasn't
disrupted things that there is just a
mass of money where we can throw out
$650 billion and say okay or $900
billion of market cap losses in one week
from three companies and people say it
can be absorbed. Is there some sort of
signal here about how much money there
is in financial markets that's going
into the real world that could
potentially have inflationary
ramifications that we haven't yet priced
in? Well, I mean, you know, there is the
argument for productivity gain and that
potentially dample dampens uh in
inflation as we go out over the next
couple of years. So, not overly
concerned about inflation right now. I
think also part of the broadening out
Lisa on that money slushing around is
not just the US anymore. I think that
we've been talking to clients about
increasing diversification and I think
that's case has been strengthened
particularly when you see the pull back
in. So we're also looking at
opportunities outside the US
particularly in Europe or Japan you know
this weekend we'll get the snap election
in Japan and we think that the LB uh LDP
is going to gain seed and that will help
push through the stimulus package and
and revitalize the domestic economy. So
again for the last few years you know
investors have been rewarded in the US
but we think that the opportunity set
has broadened that's why we still remain
constructive on global equities because
no longer do you have to just focus on
the US and what's happening in the US
economy you can look across the pond as
well and look at Europe as well as in
parts of Asia.
>> You're very constructive right now but
you do say that when it comes to tech
you're looking at specific names and
maybe the leadership is changing. What
do you want to see? What names do you
like? So you know when you look at tech
yes you know reality is that bleed
across software has been happening for
months we know that it got accelerated
in the last couple of weeks but you know
um I think fundamentally when you look
at even software still growing still
mid- teens topline growth you know um
and we also recognize that the fact is
like these incumbents al fully
entrenched in um the enterprise and the
enterprise uh software isn't just about
writing code it's about integration it's
about understanding complex system. It's
about managing governance and so we do
think that some of these software
companies still have the edge but that's
said it's understandable why there is a
pullback. So within software what what
what we're more focused on is those
companies that are not so over
overexposed to se uh seatbased models
right and those that are vertically
integrated and then across the rest of
tech particularly the AI stack what
we're looking at is those companies that
are starting to monetize AI again those
vertically integrated as well as in
semis it's not just the chips it's also
the memory stocks that we're looking
that that we've been adding to and those
that are involved in foundry as well as
packaging so I think you have to have
that diversification not only across the
globe in terms of regionally but also in
sectors and also in these structural
themes and particularly across um the uh
the AI value stack.
>> Just finally year-end target on the S&P
7,700.
>> Yes.
>> Do you think we've got 10% plus upside
if software stays in the penalty box?
>> I think so. It's can we can software
stabilize here? Feels like we're
starting to get there. I mean we're down
we're in bare market territory at this
point. So it's more stabilization in
software the rest of tech you know
because that spending is benefiting the
rest of tech and then we have the cickle
parts of of of the market that are
performing well. So when you put all of
that together unless you see any sort of
major crack in the labor market or a
major crack in growth and we don't think
you're going to see that in the economy.
The fact is the data has been coming in
pretty okay. We think that you can get
to that 7700 that greater participation
um will be able be enough to push it
there.
>> It's good to see you. It always is. Who
needs payrolls? We've got Nadia Levelvel
of UBS Global Wealth Management. Nadia,
thank you. It's good to see you. Thank
you very much. Let's keep an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief is Vonyie Quinn. Hey Vonyie.
>> Hey John, thank you. President Donald
Trump wants Washington Dallas
International Airport and New [music]
York's Penn Station to be named after
him. NBC News reporting the Trump
administration asked Democrat [music]
Chuck Schumer to rename the
transportation hubs in exchange for the
release of the federal funds required to
[music] build a long delayed gateway
tunnel between New York and New Jersey.
Anthropic is releasing a new version of
its AI model designed to perform
financial research and other workplace
tasks. The company says Claude Opus 4.6
Six can scrutinize company data,
regulatory filings, and market
information to come up with detailed
financial analyses
and bigger bonuses for bankers. Goldman
Sachs, Morgan Stanley, JP Morgan, Bank
of America are boosting their bonus
pools for bankers and traders by at
least 10%. [music]
The decision reflects a strong year as
the businesses benefited from deal
making and market activity.
Collectively, the banks posted their
largest annual profit since 2021. And
that is your Bloomberg brief. John.
>> Hey Vonnie, thank you. More from Vonnie
in the next 30 minutes or so. Up next,
the morning calls. Plus, Gil Lauria of
DA Davidson downgrading Amazon saying
it's losing the lead [music] in the
cloud space. That conversation up next,
live from New York City this morning.
Good morning.
[music]
I think what investors are looking for
is managements and insiders to step up
and start buying their own stock. Um I
think that would really kind of instill
some confidence rather than just telling
investors the selloff is overdone. Maybe
launching some corporate buybacks,
management teams need to step up,
insiders need to step up uh and show the
confidence they have in the outlooks of
their own businesses.
>> That was Stefan Slovinsky of Bmp Parab
joining us a little bit earlier on. I
talk about when moves like this happen,
it brings the best out of Wall Street.
Some great research out there at the
moment. [music] This came from Manish
Kapper of Sockchen writing the
following. US software stocks are down
17% year [music] to date. They've lacked
the S&P by almost 30 percentage points
over the last 6 months. He goes on to
say, "This [music] is the outlier, a
sector that has delivered 13% annualized
profit growth for the last three [music]
decades, almost double of the S&P 500,
and built its status as one of the
market's most reliable defensive
engines.
>> How do you price in [music]
something that hasn't happened yet?" And
the promise that Anthropic put out there
[music] is essentially what we cannot
price, which is mass disruption. And
that's what these stocks are trading
[music] on. Not necessarily the
performance that not only analysts but
also the heads of private investment
firms are trying to tell us day in and
day out.
>> The worst relative performance in 25
years. [music]
Amazing. That's from Manish Cabra over
at Sockjen. Equity futures doing better
this morning. Let's check out the price
action going into the opening bow.
[music] 1 hour and 13 minutes away.
Equity futures on the S&P 500 positive
by 0.5. The NASDAQ up the Russell
outperforming. The Russell 2000 higher
by 1.26%.
That's the price action. Let's get you
some morning calls with one stock in
focus, Amazon. First up, Can Fitzgerald
lowering its price target to 250, citing
concerns around long-term ROI. Your
second call from Evercore ISI slashing
its target to 285, anticipating negative
free cash flow for the year. And
finally, [music] Wedbush cutting its
target to 300, noting investors need to
see tangible returns from high capex.
That stock is down by 8%. Let's stick
with that name. A $200 billion capex
price tag weighing on shares. Gil Laura
of DAD Davidson downgrading the stock to
neutral and writing this. With the
context of results from Microsoft and
Google, we see AWS continuing to lose
its lead and now scrambling to catch up
through escalating investment. Gil joins
us now for more. Gil, welcome to the
program. Read the note earlier this
morning when you published it. What
stood out to me was this. It sounds like
you think that 200 billion is starting
to look a little desperate. Is that
fair?
It is because uh they're escalating
their capex. So is Google. So is
Microsoft. So is Meta. It's just that
Amazon is not getting as good of a
result as those other companies. Google
is investing a lot, but they just grew
their cloud business 48%. Microsoft grew
Azure 39% and and that's just because of
internal allocations. They could have
grown it faster. Amazon is only growing
that that business 24%.
More importantly, we look at the backlog
that this investment has delivered so
far, and we see that Google's backlog is
comparable to Amazon's. Google is half
the size.
Microsoft's backlog is almost twice as
high as Amazon, and they're the smaller
business. So, Amazon is is investing a
lot. It's just not getting as good of a
result as Google and Microsoft. Google
is lapping them and Microsoft still has
the lead in terms of delivering AI
compute. That's why we're concerned.
>> Gil, do you think this is a structural
disadvantage, a structural hole that the
company will ultimately struggle to get
out of?
>> Yes. And the and it's a result of a
couple of things. It's a result of the
fact that Microsoft aligned with OpenAI
early. It has privacy there and Google
was able to create Gemini as one of the
leading chats and AI engines and that's
giving them the lead. Amazon doesn't
have either. It had an early investment
in Anthropic, but Anthropic wisely
diversified and is only and is also
getting investments from Google and
Microsoft. So, Amazon doesn't have the
primacy there either. So, the leading
models are what are leading the race.
Microsoft's aligned with one, Google
with the other. Amazon is just trying to
catch up.
>> Gil, is there any chance that Amazon
could catch up? What are they investing
in that could potentially get them over
the finish line?
>> Well, that's why they're investing so
aggressively now, not to mention the 50
billion they want to invest in Open AI
in order to get better access there. So
they're going to try to catch up, but
this race is happening very fast and
it's it up until now they're just
continuing to fall behind those
Microsoft and Google.
>> So Gil, do you see this really as the
reason behind the spending raising
concerns for you? the idea of being
defensive rather than offensive and not
this idea that the nature of these
businesses is fundamentally shifting
where suddenly they are spending
exponentially more every single year as
they become more asset intensive and
more like utilities and real estate
managers than the tech companies that
they once were.
>> The business is definitely shifting and
it is becoming a lot more capital
intensive. We're not saying it's not a
good investment though to be clear.
Google, Microsoft, and Amazon. The
reason they're building so many data
centers is that they booked those three
years in advance. They have the
customers. Let's not forget combined
between those three companies, they have
all the customers. All business
customers use one of those three. So
when they're investing in data center
capacity, it's pre-sold. We're not
worried about the return they're going
to get because their customers want this
AI compute capacity and they're willing
to commit to it in advance. What worried
about is is among the three who's going
to do better and we don't think that
looks like Amazon right now. But in
terms of the return on the AI
investment, those companies are getting
the the good uh return. But let's not
forget who's really getting all the
profits. That's Nvidia. [clears throat]
>> All three of these companies are now
taking all of their cash flow and
passing most of it to Nvidia. And yet
right now, Nvidia is actually trading at
a lower multiple than any of them. Gil,
when it comes to Amazon Web Services
though, I understand that potentially
it's not doing as well as you're talking
about with the other peers, but for them
it's the fastest pace for them in more
than three years. Doesn't this show that
actually when Amazon comes out and is
talking about all this money, it is
going to a part of the company that is
growing within their portfolio?
>> Yes. Again, it's a it's a good
investment. They should be making it.
They have to make it. They're just not
getting as good of a result as as Google
and Microsoft. That's what we're saying.
And again, they're trading at a higher
multiple than Microsoft. Microsoft
trading at 22 times with Microsoft Azure
growing 39%,
Amazon trading at 26 times with AWS
growing at 24%. That means that
Microsoft has a lead. It's it's more
attractive as a stock. And again, we
think they're going to keep the lead, if
not extend it over Amazon. Amazon's
talking about they're spending it on AI
chips, robotics, and low or earth orbit
satellites. Gil, is that the right place
to be spending the money?
>> Well, most of the in the investment most
of their investment is still in AWS and
a lot of it's in retail and they're
getting phenomenal returns in retail,
right? The the fact that they can
generate the level of profit that they
do in retail while growing that business
high single digits is very impressive.
Our concern on the retail side has more
to do with how quickly the internet is
now changing.
The internet used to be web person
facing like human facing and
increasingly it's chat facing. It's chat
GPT and Gemini that are increasingly
driving traffic to the web and Amazon
has so far refused to allow those
chatbots access to Amazon. So even on
the retail side where they're doing
really well and getting great returns on
robotics and distribution center
investment and regionalization
even there we have a concern that they
could lose their lead because if you're
a Shopify merchant your web your website
is now linked to Chad GPT and Gemini if
you're selling on Amazon it's not. And
these things are changing very quickly.
The volume on the web is is turning from
human to chat at a at a at a very fast
pace. And for now, Amazon is emphasizing
Rufus, which I don't think any of us is
using while Chad GPT and Gemini are do
not have a direct connection into the
Amazon inventory.
>> Gil, can we finish on anthropic? It's
made a lot of waves this week and I've
really struggled to understand whether
they're punching above their weight,
whether the waves they've made are
justified by their market position,
whether a lot of the headlines this week
is just the preipo road show or if it's
actual real legitimate disruption. How
are you framing things for clients?
Anthropic made the smartest strategic
decision which is to focus on code, on
STEM, on math, on enterprise, on solving
hard problems. And now their models are
solving hard problems and and are very
focused at solving the types of problems
that we have in the workplace where Chad
GPT and Gemini from Google have been
more focused on consumer interactions.
Anthropic has stayed very focused on
solving enterprise problems, which is a
very big pocket that they are addressing
now. Now, I'm in the camp that believes
that they're not going to replace all of
software, but I do believe they're going
to make us a lot more productive and and
that's and they're only starting to get
paid for the productivity gains they're
going to help enterprise customers get.
>> Gil, thank you, sir. Appreciate it.
Thank you, Gil Luri there of DA Davidson
on the tech story of the week so far.
And what a story it's been. The week
isn't over. Equity futures positive by
0.6%. Up next, we'll catch up with
Stephanie Roth of Wolf Research after a
string of weaker than expected labor
prints. Plus, Yhier is [music] back with
your morning movers. Stalantis, look at
this move. Stalantis is down by 23%
after a massive EV [music] write down.
That conversation up next.
>> [music]
[music]
>> on the week so far. Down 2% on the S&P,
down close to four on the NASDAQ 100.
Here's the bounce so far this Friday
morning. Good morning [music] to you. Up
by 0.5% on the S&P on the NASDAQ 100 up
by 0.7. The Russell outperforming up by
1.4. Four companies [music] looking to
spend up to $650 billion in the year
ahead on capex and yet still those tech
companies haven't engineered a boom
[music] in the chip makers. Nvidia is
down on the week by 10%. Broadcom is
down on the week by 6%. Those two names
are trading firmer in the pre-market.
Let's see how they open up with [music]
the opening bow just 60 minutes away.
Let's get you some more single names,
some morning movers. Yahira has more.
Hey yra.
>> Hi John. [music] Amazon Amazon getting
hit hard for being one of those big
spenders. Shares are down 8% in the
pre-market as it pours $200 billion into
AI [music] infrastructure. It's a move
that CEO Andy Jasse says it's necessary
since at AWS he says that they're
monetizing capacity as fast as they can
build it. But the problem for investors
is that it is already projected to hit
the bottom line with Amazon's forecast
for operating income in the current
period coming in below estimates.
[music] Meanwhile, moving on to our big
mover to the downside, and that is
Sencia. Shares are down more than 23% in
the pre-market after the automaker said
it [music] would take a $26 billion hit
as it scales back its EV ambitions.
Santis admitting that [music] it went
too aggressively on EV demand that just
didn't show up. So, it joins the likes
[music] of Ford and General Motors who
have also had to take big right downs.
And we end on Roblox. This is the gaming
app popular with kids and it had been
caught up in this AI firestorm. [music]
That's because Alphabet came out with a
tool allowing users to create their own
virtual worlds with characters and
that's very similar to what Roblox
offers, [music] but it came out with a
solid earnings report at Beat. So shares
are up more than 10% in the pre-market.
John
>> Yara, thank you. Thanks for this
morning. The broader market doing okay,
up by 0.6%. Big week ahead. Payrolls
just around the corner after several
data points this week so far open the
door to a conversation about rate cuts.
Mike McKe has more. Good morning, Mike.
>> Good morning, John, from Atlanta. And
I'd like to wish you all a happy non-job
day. The government shutdown uh of
course postponing jobs until next week.
But that doesn't mean there hasn't been
a lot of employment news this week.
That, as you mentioned, John, has opened
the door to more talk of rate cuts
because the news has been universally
bad. We saw ADP come in much lower than
expected. We've saw seen the uh jobs uh
the jobless claims numbers come in
higher than expected. And of course,
there was that big challenger miss uh or
report of job losses uh the worst since
2009 that came out yesterday. So since
that's happened, we've seen Fed Funds
futures price in a rate cut in June,
which would be Kevin Worsh's first
meeting as chair if indeed he is
confirmed. Now, it doesn't mean a whole
lot because of course we do get the jobs
report next week. And we also get a lot
of stuff next week that is on the other
side of the mandate. That's why it is a
huge week for everybody. We start with
inflation and the New York Fed's
inflation expectations numbers and then
we see on uh the ECI come out on Tuesday
the uh employment cost index along with
import prices and retail sales. We'll
see some strength maybe in December. Uh
Wednesday is the jobs report you talked
about and then Thursday jobless claims
and then Friday CPI. So we've got jobs
and CPI next week. is going to be an
awful lot for people to process in terms
of what it all means for rate moves
coming up.
>> MK, thank you sir. MK down at Atlanta,
Georgia. Look out for this interview a
little bit later on today. He'll be
sitting down with the Atlanta Fed
President Raphael Bostik. I should say
the outgoing Atlanta Fed President
Raphael Bostik. He steps down at the end
of this month. This is a man who's
indicating he thinks they shouldn't be
cutting rates at all for the year ahead
on the very other end of the spectrum
compared to say a governor Chris Waller.
Yeah, and I'd be actually very curious
to see what he says in a day like today
after we got the labor market data that
we got over the past week, given the
fact that it points to a weaker than
expected labor park uh market. Does he
still expect there to be this
stabilization in the employment picture
as uh Fed Chair J Powell has indicated,
>> especially as Jonathan reiterated what
Governor Waller had to say recently, the
fact that for 2025 it's going to be
revised downward likely to show that
there was no growth, zero zip, natada.
What do you say to that? Sticking with
the labor market, this is what Stephanie
Rotherwolf research has got to say to
that. While the data was disappointing,
we wouldn't read too much into the
latest prints. Nor are we changing our
view that the labor market should
improve from here. Stephanie joins us
now for more. Stephanie, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Why should we ignore challenger jobless
claims and jolts?
>> Okay. For for claims, they rose to
230,000.
Historically speaking, that's not such a
bad reading. There was a lot of weather
disruption that week when I was talking
about Challenger. A lot of it was driven
by UPS which had a similar announcement
last year and they the challenger said
itself that it's going to be driven by
uh attrition and voluntary separations
are the big part of it. Another reason
for challenger was Amazon. So the the
bulk of the the news was coming from
either tier tier three data or data
that's not necessarily indicative of a
labor market that's actually
deteriorating from here. We'll have to
see what payroll shows and our sense is
that next week we'll learn that payrolls
for January were fairly decent and then
of course there will be those downward
visions historically.
>> I'm totally with you and I got the
challenger jobs cuts. We were all
looking at the idea that this was really
concentrated in three companies that
have already announced a lot of these
job cuts. Then the jobless claims come
out. Yeah, it's at an 8week high but
ultimately still at a pretty low level.
Then Jolt comes out and you look at it
and it's saying look we're looking at
the lowest job openings going back to
2020. How many of these can you explain
off before you start to get a little
self-conscious? Wait a second. Maybe
something else is going on here.
>> I mean, I do I think you have to take a
step back and reassess your view. But
our sense is one the the consumer path
is pretty good. We're going to also have
fiscal stimulus that is starting to hit.
The the momentum is seems to be
improving. If you look rewind just a
couple of days ago, we were looking at
the ISM and we're starting to get
questions of is this early cycle? So how
can it be both early cycle and late
cycle at the same time? Our sense is
that we are starting to to improve
cyclally. There were some you know
negative news from from some of these
these data sources that's probably not
indicative of the trend. This happens
very frequently especially in the month
of January where you get some prints
assoc es especially associated with
layoff news which tends to be a January
phenomenon.
>> Well maybe it's early cycle for fiber
optic cables but it's late cycle for
humans that are actually trying to enter
the workforce. I mean, how much do you
glean that some of this weakness truly
is coming from less human intensive jobs
that really result from some of the
capital expenditures that are supporting
economic growth?
>> There might be an element of that. So
are we we ran some estimates looking at
the rising unemployment rate uh since
Chad GBT launched and we found that
about half of the rising unemployment
rate was tied to AI and then the other
half was more cyclical in nature. So the
extent to which sure there is half of it
that is structural that will probably
continue to rise but the the portion of
it that is cyclical might actually
reverse this year if we actually do get
a cyclical improvement in the economy.
So we do think that you could see about
1 to two ten of downward pressure on the
unemployment rate this year just because
of economic uncertainty fading given
last year was was true peak tariff
uncertainty a modest improvement in in
the consumer in which case you could see
some modest hiring across cyclical
industries. Chachi was launched in 2022
and they're taking 50% of the jobs right
now. How does the Fed deal with that?
>> It's a it's a tough backdrop. I think
they have to be thinking about the the
productivity and you have it's kind of a
call about whether this is product a
productivity cycle. There's no harm in
in in waiting at least through the
middle part of the year, which is
probably what the Fed's going to
ultimately end up doing. And then in the
back part of the year they could
probably cut a couple more times and and
Wars is gonna gonna guide them towards
that because that will be an environment
where inflation is also starting to
fade. You when in productivity cycles
you don't have inflation problems at the
same time the growth is strong. So if we
start to see that inflation cools down
then it's an environment where they can
still cut a couple more times. What will
be the main driver of disinflation?
Torsson logs was out a note today and he
was talking about actually you could see
inflation creep higher with things like
the one big beautiful bill coming out
for you. What is disinflationary?
So in the first part of the year, I
think that's right. We're going to
probably see inflation move a little bit
higher, in which case that's why we
don't think that the Fed is going to be
cutting under Powell anymore. However,
in the back part of the year, it's going
to be driven by uh the the typical
disinflationary forces that is tied to
productivity, which is lower wager lower
wage inflation than would otherwise be
the case. So first part of the year, I
agree we're going to likely see some
pretty hot inflation prints, especially
in Q1. that will probably start to to
fade and then the narrative will shift
in the back part of the year because
that's when you'll start to see
inflation cooling and then labor costs
also fairly modest.
>> I don't expect a precise number from
you, but just how much of GDP growth
this year is going to come from the tech
capex, not just the four companies, but
everybody else as well.
>> Yeah, I think you'll you'll it'll
probably be 50 or so basis points on
GDP.
>> That's pretty impressive stuff. This is
why it's interesting for the Federal
Reserve. They could be cutting interest
rates, potentially responding to a labor
market at the same time GDP is close to
three. You ever seen that before?
>> It's a it's a very unique environment
and that's why they certainly will have
a tough time cutting in the first part
of the year when you see growth actually
accelerating. So the the news this week
I think is is perhaps a bit of a one-off
and we'll we'll shift to data prints
that are starting to surprise to the
upside. Consumer data starting to pick
up, sentiment improve, companies want to
invest again because the the economic
backdrop is is is a bit better than
where it's been. In which case the fears
about economy really decelerating or
labor market crash.
>> That's basically what they did do at the
end of last year. They were basically
cutting interest rates with GDP three
four percentage points high because of
what we saw from tech capex even though
payroll growth has totally stalled.
>> Look they've been looking through this.
They've actually been acknowledging that
a productivity boom could come at the
behest of an employment market that is
sluggish. The one challenge to this and
the one thing that I've not heard people
fully explore is how do four four
companies spend $650 billion in one year
without causing inflation because
ultimately what they're buying yes it's
raw materials it's land housing it's all
of these different aspects it's a lot of
money so how do we get that kind of
spending without any kind of price
distortion on the other side
>> Stephanie how does it show up in GDP
does it come up through imports
investment how does it show up
>> so the way that we've been tracking it
in GDP is looking at only the domestic
portion of it because it gets funky with
the imports because imports end up being
a negative on GDP just based on GDP
math. So we look at it uh based on the
tech portion of capex the construction
and what we find is that techreated
domestic portion of AI capex is about
one is in terms of size is about one and
a half% of GDP. So that compares to say
housing which is about 3 and a half% of
GDP. So it is large it is growing. If
Jensen's forecasts are right, it'll grow
to 5% of GDP by the end of the decade.
I'm not sure I would bet on it being
quite that high, but it's an important
part of GDP, but perhaps not as big as
some of the other major drivers.
>> Why is it not inflationary in any way?
>> I mean, I think it is modestly
inflationary, certainly offsetting some
of the disinflationary forces that are
playing out otherwise. And when you
think about these typical productivity
type of booms, it ends up being modestly
inflationary in the near- term and then
in the medium to longer term it becomes
disinflationary as you actually see the
productivity gains as a result. We
haven't really seen much of that
productivity gain yet. I think it's
coming. So for the first part of the
year, you know, you'll probably see
those inflationary forces because
there's a lot of positive demand shocks
in in in the first couple of months,
which is why I would emphasize the data
that we got this week flagging that the
labor market is starting to soften is
probably not the right takeaway for the
next couple months.
>> What's your guess for next week? Just
quickly
>> on payroll is 85,000 with some
substantial downward revisions to the
prior months.
>> Okay, good to see you. Thank you.
Stephanie Roth there of Wolf Research
looking for 85,000. The high next week's
135. That's city. The low is negative10.
That standard chart as Steve Englander
had a lot to say about the payrolls data
earlier on this week. Check out that
interview. If you haven't seen it, the
median estimate in our survey is 70,000.
>> You know, to Steve Englander's point,
even Priz said, watch the revisions
because they're going to do a full
revision for the prior year and a
revision in the methodology and that
could really shift our expectations of
what we can expect going forward and
what we just saw in 2025.
>> Pay Rosa next Wednesday. 2 days later,
CPI, that's the calendar for the week
ahead. Let's give you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Vonnie Quinn.
Hey, Vonyie.
>> Hey, John. Thank you. The search for
84year-old Nancy Guthrie is in its sixth
day now. The Pima County Sheriff's
Department says neither a suspect nor a
person of interest has been identified
in the disappearance of the mother of
Today's Show co-host Savannah Guthrie.
The [music] FBI is offering a $50,000
reward for information leading to
Guthri's recovery or the conviction of
people involved [music] in her
disappearance.
Brevin Howard Asset Management's Minal
Bathwal is one of the world's most
successful macro hedge fund managers.
Bathwal hasn't had a single down year
since he started managing money during
the 2008 financial crisis. His fund has
scored wins on everything from Korean
investment interest rates to Asian
currencies.
President Donald Trump launching a new
website to help Americans buy medication
at a discount. The president saying more
than 40 medications will be available
through the site including noon nordisks
ompic and wgoi for $199 as well as EMD
Serono's fertility treatment. That is
your Bloomberg brief. Don
>> Vonyie, thank you. Thanks for this
morning. Up next, we'll set you up for
the day ahead. Plus, Julia Herman of New
York Life Investments assessing the big
tech selloff of the week so far from New
York City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
>> [music]
[music]
>> You got to go company by company. Be
[music] far more selective and can't say
I'm just going to own the whole lot of
them. There will be winners. There will
[music] be losers. We knew all along AI
is going to be quite disruptive. The
question that investors should ask
themselves over the next few years is
[music] it disruptive to more businesses
than it is beneficial or is it
beneficial to more businesses than it is
disruptive [music] and I'm still in the
latter camp. Brian Levit of Invesco is
still bullish. Joined us a little bit
earlier on this morning. If you're just
joining us now, welcome to the program.
Your scores look like this. Equity
futures on the S&P 500 higher by 0.5%
following a 3-day slide on the S&P 500
on the Nasdaq bouncing back by 0.6. We
were heading towards the worst week
since April of last year. Let's see if
that changes going into the opening ball
and beyond. Switch up the board and get
to the bond market. 2-year yields down
10 basis points in yesterday's session
off [music] the back of weaker than
expected economic data. Two sub 350 at
34749 yields higher on the session
[music] by some two basis points. The
misses we saw in the data yesterday just
adding a bit more importance to the data
we get next week and over the next week.
Your trading diary looks like this. At
10 a.m. Eastern time, we'll get you
Mitch consumer sentiment. Look out for
that. Over the weekend, elections in
Japan. On Monday, Fed speak from Waller
and Bostic. Wednesday is the main one,
the big [music] one, the January
payrolls report. Onto Thursday, jobless
claims. And on Friday, some CPI data.
>> I just [music] think that if it's not
Friday payrolls report, does it have the
same importance? Does Wednesday payrolls
have the same ring? Look, we're going to
get that data point. What does it tell
us not only about the month of January,
which is noisy and typically highly
seasonally dependent, but also the
revisions to all of 2025 to get a sense
of the momentum heading into this year.
>> What would the Super Bowl be if it was
played on Wednesday, right?
>> Totally with your brand. It's just not
the same.
>> It's just not the same. I mean, does it
even matter? Does it have a
>> No going to tune in. The audience is
going to drop off. No one wants to see
that.
>> NFP [music] Wednesday, not payrolls
Wednesday. Does it work?
>> Payrolls Wednesday. 8:30 Eastern time.
Tune in. Let's turn back to your top
story on Wall Street. Alphabet, Amazon,
Meta, Microsoft forecasting a record.
$650 billion in combined capex for 26.
Julia Herman of New York Life
Investments writing capex wants enough
to drive AI conviction now needs to
clear a higher bar. Proof of faster
monetization. Julia joins us now for
more. Julia, good morning.
>> Morning.
>> Feels like this has been building for a
number of months now. Is the market
starting to push back?
>> Yeah, absolutely. We're essentially
seeing a shift from total focus on the
infrastructure layer of AI and big
support for how much infrastructure AI
is going to need to a focus on the
application layer, how it's used. And
honestly, I see a lot of impatience in
the market in wanting to determine
winners and losers in software, in
wanting immediate monetization of AI
capabilities. But those conversations
are 3 to 5 years or more premature in my
view. I think where the market is going
to have to come back to yes today but
maybe also in the next few quarters are
two key hubs of of conviction in AI. The
first is are the core profit centers of
these hyperscalers doing well. Those
earnings hubs have nothing to do with AI
just now but they enable the the second
key hub which is um for the recycling of
operating cash flow back into capex. As
an investor, the number one reason I
have to believe in AI as an investment
theme is because these hyperscalers
believe in their own theme. And so we
actually see capex as a support of this
conviction as opposed to a detraction
from it.
>> One surprise we've seen through the week
is to see this number 650 billion and
then see stocks like Nvidia trade lower,
Broadcom trade lower. Those two names
are up in the pre-market, but Nvidia on
the week is down by 10%. Does that make
sense to you that semis have struggled
this week in the face of spend that big?
Well, you know, I think that sometimes
everything is painted with a little bit
too broad of a brush. And the reality is
is that this is a complex supply chain,
right? And Nvidia is in a completely
different part of that supply chain than
some of the other hyperscalers,
Microsoft, Meta, Google, etc. And
honestly, uh what I would expect to see
from here is uh a focus on that core
profitability. Uh not just that but even
as leverage enters some of this
financing that is a prudent capital
structure decision that financing has
become 175 basis points cheaper on the
front end in the last 18 months. So even
as more leverage enters uh this uh
zeitgeist I would expect to see maybe
more of a market demand for
monetization. Yes. Um but we should also
probably see um a recognition that as
long as actual cash flow is behind this
AI boom um that that we can keep going
from here and that money is again going
exactly where these companies um where
their mouth is.
>> There are a number of investors who are
looking at US tech companies and saying
I don't like your business model
anymore. I like China tech companies
that are looking on building up much
more on this asset light type of uh
model and not necessarily the
infrastructure that is really expensive.
Do you agree with that? Do you think
that tech xUS is actually looking more
attractive as the US model goes heavily
into infrastructure and real estate?
>> Well, up until this point, international
growth equity has actually not been the
play. We have actually seen value
outperform in those segments. Um, in
terms of how early we are in the
development of AI though, I think that
all of this competition is a healthy
thing, right? Deepseek uh early last
year was seen as this the great threat
to AI, but actually isn't it a really
positive development that maybe this can
be done with a little bit less energy.
Um and given that we're so behind in the
infrastructure that we do need for AI,
not just in the US, but globally,
further competition, model efficiencies,
I think all support the 10-year thesis
around AI, even if they create bumps in
the next one-year thesis. At the
beginning of this year, a lot of
investors were saying that they
preferred equity exposure to debt
exposure given the potential for growth.
Is that shifting? Do you now get the
sense that some people are saying, "Wait
a second, maybe the equity exposure is a
little less clear ga based on the uh
spending programs and the debt side
looks better." Do you agree with that?
>> Um, I think that in general conviction
in the AI theme is still there and I
think what's happening in fixed income
markets is the proof in the pudding
there. We are seeing debt investors
gobble up the exact same issuance that
equity investors are now saying that
they're concerned about, right? And
you're also seeing small cap tech uh do
reasonably well. So that tells me that
there's still conviction in this overall
theme. The jitters that we've seen uh
hit large cap growth, I think are more
about valuations and concerns about
where allocation has ended up given that
diversification rewarded investors uh
last year. So, you sound very
constructive on this and you think
potentially this is going to be a wash
out and these are still companies that
people should get behind. Yeah, I do.
Absolutely. We did a lot of long-term
research on this theme. And honestly,
our conviction in AI rests on the fact
that if you compare AI to historical
waves of innovation, it has all the
right ingredients. It has public
participation, public funding, um it has
the actual private sector helping the
rubber meet the road. And there's also
this sense that this technology is
universal. One proxy for that would be
to measure retail investor participation
in the Magnificent 7 for example. So
over the next 10 years, we have
incredible conviction and in the short
term what we're looking for to to
bolster that conviction is again are
these core nonI profit centers remaining
strong such that they can enable further
capex uh financed by both cash and an
increasing degree of leverage in the
next few months.
>> Julia, this was smart. Thanks for making
time for us.
>> Yeah, absolutely.
>> And welcome to the program. The first
appearance as well. Thanks for being
here. Thank you. Julia Herman there of
New York Life Investments on the AI
trade and the route of the past three
days.
>> We just heard a number of people push
back against it and say, "Hold on a
second. There's a lot of value here."
Question is, how do you value that?
Right? And I think that ultimately there
will be a lot of discussion about this
in the months ahead. Is there a
different multiple put on some of these
names as they continue to plan spending
programs that would take us to the moon?
Also, I've been thinking they had to
come out and announce more capbacks than
they did the previous years. What level
would have the market liked? Because at
some point, if it was too low, we could
have also seen push back as well from
investors saying, "Actually, these
companies should be spending a lot more
if what they are promising is so big."
>> You joke, but they are literally
spending plans that would take us to
space.
>> I'm serious.
>> Yeah, data centers are space. Elon Musk
and Jeff Bezos want to put data centers
in space.
>> What a week it's been. $650 billion.
>> We're going to space. the intentions to
spend from these big four companies just
amazing. Equity futures up by 0.5% on
the S&P 500. The final day of a very,
very busy week. Looking ahead to next
week, CPI and payrolls on deck, payrolls
on Wednesday, inflation data on Friday.
Coming up on Monday to preview the week
ahead, we'll catch up with Cameron
Dawson of New Edge Wealth, the former
Fed Vice Chair Rich Clara, Jill Kerry
Hall of Bank of America, and Elsen Quad
of Wells Fargo from New York City. Have
a wonderful weekend. Thank you for
choosing Bloomberg TV. This was
Bloomberg surveillance.
[music]
>> [music]